[Dr. Dre]
Y'all know me, still the same O.G., but I been low key
Hated on by most these niggaz wit no cheese, no deals and no G's
No wheels and no keys, no boats no snowmobiles, and no ski's
Mad at me cause I can finally afford to provide my family wit groceries
Got a crib wit a studio and it's all full of tracks
to add to the wall full of plaques
Hangin up in the office in back of my house like trophies
Did y'all think I'ma let my dough freeze? Hoe please
You better bow down on both knees
Who you think taught you to smoke trees?
Who you think brought you the oldies?
Eazy-E's, Ice Cube's, and D.O.C's
The Snoop D-O-double-G's
and the group that said mother-"Fuck Tha Police"
Gave you a tape full of dope beats
to bump when you stroll through in your hood
And when your album sales wasn't doin too good
who's the Doctor they told you to go see?
Y'all better listen up closely
All you niggaz that said that I turned pop, or The Firm flopped
Y'all are the reason that Dre ain't been gettin no sleep
so FUCK Y'ALL, all of y'all; if y'all don't like me, BLOW ME!
Y'all are gonna keep fuckin around wit me
and turn me back to the old me

[Chorus: Eminem] (repeat 2X)

Nowadays everybody wanna talk like they got somethin to say
but nothin comes out when they move their lips;
just a bunch of gibberish
And motherfuckers act like they forgot about Dre

[Eminem]
So what do you say to somebody you hate (What?)
Or anyone tryin to bring trouble your way?
Wanna resolve things in a bloodier way? (YUP)
Then just study a tape of N.W.A.!
One day I was walkin by, wit a Walkman on, when I caught a guy
give me an awkward eye (What you lookin at?)
And strangled him off in the parkin lot, wit his Karl Kani
I don't give a fuck if it's dark or not
I'm harder than me tryin to park a Dodge
when I'm drunk as fuck
Right next to a humungous truck in a two-car garage {*CRUNCH*}
Hoppin out wit two broken legs, tryin to walk it off
"Fuck you too bitch, call the cops!"
I'ma kill you and them loud ass motherfuckin barkin dogs
And when the cops came through
me and Dre stood next to a burnt down house
Wit a can full of gas and a hand full of matches
And still weren't found out (RIGHT HERE)
From here on out it's the Chronic 2
Startin today and tomorrow's the new
And I'm still loco enough
To choke you to death wit a Charleston Chew
{*Eminem's vocal turntable*}
Slim shady - hotter then a set of twin babies
in a Mercedes Benz wit the windows up
when the temp goes up to the mid 80's
Callin men ladies; sorry Doc but I been crazy
There's no way that you can save me
It's okay, go with him Hailey (Da-da?)

Chorus

[Dr. Dre]
If it was up to me, you muh'fuckers would stop comin up to me
wit your hands out lookin up to me, like you want somethin free
When my last CD was out, you wasn't bumpin me
But now that I got this little company
Everybody wanna come to me like it was some disease
But you won't get a crumb from me
Cause I'm from the streets of (Compton, Compton)
I told em all - all them little gangstas
Who you think helped mold 'em all?
Now you wanna run around talkin bout guns like I ain't got none
What you think I sold 'em all?
Cause I stay well off
Now all I get is hate mail all day sayin Dre fell off
What cause I been in the lab wit a pen and a pad
tryin to get this damn label off?
I ain't havin that; this is the millenium of Aftermath
It ain't gon' be nothin after that
So give me one more platinum plaque
and fuck rap! You can have it back
So where's all the Madd Rappers at?
It's like a jungle in this habitat
But all you savage cats, know that I was strapped wit gats
when you were cuddlin a Cabbage Patch

Chorus

Chorus 1/2 (after music ends)

I'm the illest rapper to hold a cordless
Patrolling corners
Looking for hookers to punch in the mouth with a roll of quarters
I'm meaner in action
Than Rosco beating James Tarteenyer ()
And smackin his back with vacuum cleaner attachments
I grew up in the wild hood
As a hazardous youth
With a fucked up childhood
That I used as an excuse
And aint shit changed
But kept the same mindstate
Since the third time that I failed 9th grade
You probably think that I'm a negative person don't be so sure of it
I don't promote violence I just encourage it
I laugh at the sight of death
As I fall down a cement flight of steps
And land inside a bed of spider webs
So throw caution to the wind
You and a friend
Can jump off of a bridge and if you live, do it again
Shit, why not Blow your brain out
I'm blowing mine out
Fuck it, you only live once you might as well die now

It's only fair to warn
I was born with a set of horns
And metaphors attached to my damn umbulical cord
Warlord of rap little bastard with a two by four board
That smashed into your Honda Accord
With a 4 door Ford
But a more toward () droppin an accapella
The choppa () fella
The mozarella
Worse than a hellacopta propella
Got you locked in the cella
With your skeleton showing
Developing anorexia
While I'm standin next to ya
Eating a full course meal watching you starve to death
With an IV in your veins
Feeding you liquid darvicet
Pumping you full of drugs
Pull the plugs
On the gunshot victims full of bullet slugs
Who were picked up in an ambulance
And driven
To receiving with the asses ripped outta they pants
And given
A less than 20 percent chance
Of living
Have a possible placement
It's a hospital patient
Storing the dead bodies in grandma's little basement
Doctor Kevorkian has arrived
To perform an autopsy on you while you scream "I'M STILL ALIVE!"
Driving a rusty scalpel in through the top of your scalp
And pulling your adams apple out through your mouth
Better call the fire department
I've hired a arson
To set fire to carpet
And burn up your entire apartment
I'm a liar to start shit ()
Got your bitch wrapped around my dick
So tight you need a crobar to pry her apart wit

Met a retarded kid named Greg with a wooden leg
Snatched it off and beat him over the fucking head with the peg
Go to bed with the keg wake up with the 40
Mixed up with Alka Seltzer and Formula 44D
Fuck an acid tab I'll strap the whole sheet to my forehead
Wait until it absorbed in and fell to the floor dead
No more said case closed end of discussion
I'm blowin up like spontaneous human combustion
Leaving you in the aftermath of holocaust and traumas
Cross the bombas ()
We blowin up your house killing your parents
and coming back to get your foster mommas
And I'm as good at keeping a promise as Nostradamus
Cause I aint making no more threats
I'm doing drivebys in tinted Corvettes on Vietnam war vets
I'm more or less sick in the head
Maybe more cause I smoked crack ()
today, yesterday, and the day before sabbath
Walk the block with a labrador
Strapit more corral for war than El Salvador
Foul style galore
Verbal cow manure
Coming together like the eyebrow on Al B. Sure

[Missy]
Slim Shady
Slim Shady
Slim Shady
Slim Shady

[Eminem]
Well I do pop pills, I keep my tube socks filled
Pop the same shit that got Tupac killed
Spit game to these hoes, like a soap opera episode
And punch a bitch in the nose, til her whole face explodes
There's three things I hate: girls, women and bitches
Smack bitches that walk up, and drop-kick midgets
Call me Boogie Night, the stalker that walks awkward
Stick figure, with a dick bigger than Mark Wahlberg
Comin through the airport, sluggish, walkin on crutches
Hit a fuckin [*pregnant chick*] in her [*stomach*] with luggage
It's like a dream I can't snap out, I black out, and back out
Lookin for some other thug, to beat the crap out
I'm bringin you rap singers two middle fingers
I flip you off in French, then translate in English
Then I'ma vanish off the face of the planet and come back
Speakin so much Spanish, Pun can't even understand it

[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] Yeah
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim motherfuckin Shady
[Shady] Yeah
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] Yeah
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy ..

[Eminem]
I had a huge attitude, started off staticky
Mad at you, had you mad at me automatically (one more time)
I'm not a commodity, I'm an oddity
Who oddly enough developed himself a Halloween following
It's so big, if I counted up all the freaks who follow me
I'd probably owe Ozzy Osbourne an apology
College girls, live in an alcoholic's world
Full of earl, head twirls every time the toilet swirls *flush*
Covered in throw-up, and I refuse to grow up
I won't budge, I still tell a grown-up to shut up (SHUT UP!)
I made this rap game suspenseful, cause now I got a impulse
To give you insults wrote with a pencil (bitch)
And waste the paper on you, choppin down the oakwood
Cause everything that you wrote in your notebook was no good
And as long as I stay in the studio and keep cuttin
You motherfuckers are puttin your words together for nuttin

[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] What's the deal?
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim motherfuckin Shady
[Shady] Yeah.. who?
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] What's the deal?
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy ..

[Missy]
Turn the music up, we gon' wake the neighbors
We gon' get high, we gon' roll to Vegas
Me and Slim Shady, on some shit daily
What you want what you got is it hot? (Is it hot?)

Turn the music up, we gon' wake the neighbors
We gon' get high, we gon' roll to Vegas
Me and Slim Shady, on some shit daily
What you want (yo) what you want (yo) ahh uhh yo

"A person from another planet might disagree with you"
"Well if you want my opinion, it comes from right here on Earth"

[Eminem]
Slim Shady.. Misdemeanor..
Timbaland.. Slim Shady..
Misdemeanor..

I'm homicidal, and suicidal with no friends
Holdin a gun with no handle, just a barrel at both ends
Sprayin tecs at you until you see your fuckin legs
With the bullet holes and the exit wounds layin next to you
(AHH!) Fuckin mad dog, foamin at the mouth
Fuck mouth, my whole house, is foamin at the couch
Jumped out of the 93rd floor of a building
And shot every window out on the way down to the ground (KEEP FILMING!)
Woke up to a hospital staff, got up and laughed, chopped em in half
Suffocated the oxygen mask
Shit if I get any higher, I'ma get the East and West beefin again
Slide back to Detroit and stand in the crossfire

[Missy]
Y'all better call the police 'fore I kill this track
Don't shoot Missy!!! Get back
Uhh, I'ma put you all in the line
Uhh, and I'ma watch you MC's die
Yo mommy, mommy, Missy done lost her mind!
I think somebody done pissed her off this time!
Yo, I'ma have to bust you through your chest and
Uhh, you will have to clean up the mess (uh-huh)
It's rainin rainin and it's pourin loud
Never fear, cause pissy Missy's through the crowd
Uhh, I hear the gats go cha-pow
Who shot me damnit? Bitch get down
Don't walk when I talk, I never talk when I smile (uh-huh)
Lay em on down, like they lived underground (uh)
For the sound, that me and, Timbaland, we found
Get your ass, kicked later, or get your ass, kicked now

Uhh.. one-two
Misdemeanor, Slim Shady
Timbaland, motherfucker
Uhh uhh uhh
Cool, cool, cool
Triple zero

Intro: (scratches)
(Eminem)- "Shady!"
(Eminem)- "that's me"
(Mr. Eon)- "Iron Mic Trilogy"
(Erik Sermon)- "back...with the flyest material"
(Eminem)- "Sh....Sh....Shady!"
(Eminem)- "that...that.....that's me"
(Mr. Eon)- "Iron Mic Trilogy"
(Erik Sermon)- "back with the...funky...beats"

Mr. Eon:
Packing the third eye rush you it's cyclopse
They trade in their high tops for night sized Withe rocks
Words in my right, they pass my left ear
It's solid decked out write the books for next year
Bear this grenade you got stuck like virgin
Who that cat splurgin' instead or rehearsin?
Tough guy, dj travi your high rise
Looking more like ronald then the fuckin fry guys
Go on uptown fucking senoritas
In Taco Bell screaming "vivas gorditas!"
Bring all your dogs i give em rabies
They never had a chance i might chew up all their babies
(Eminem: waaah!)
Pope John Paul the second, brain like satan
Have your beaten girlfriend cooking up bacon
I'm obituite with that shit that you hit
Slow my flick with ya cause mine to pick wit her

Eminem:
My nine is limpin ya six deep when i spray rounds
Hit you with 12 shots in mid air and four more on the way down
The eight straight strays to a kid's hair on the playground
You lay down on a stretcher (Don't get carried away now!)
No pun intended, snapped out of your whip
And leave it un-attended before i whip out this gun and hit it
Unless you want it dented with bullet holes any minute
Cause i can leave your Infinite full of those even if someone's in it
Snap the airbag, hit the corner and park it
You wanted a market, i got her tied up in a chair and gag
Bitches get smacked and grabbed by the hair and dragged
Like cave-women, while i'm grave diggin' with Marilyn Man

Mr. Eon:
If you got a bowl of hash better cash it
Dollar signs flashin' i'ma take the last hit

Eminem:
And if you're spitting whack shit on the microphone
I'ma snatch it outta your hand so fast i'm gonna detach it

Mr. Eon:
If you got a bowl of hash better cash it
Dollar signs flashin' i'ma take the last hit

Eminem:
I'm flabergasted off two tabs of acid
Threw my baby's mother in a nap sack and latched it

Mr. Eon:
Yo, "Eon's whack now", how you dig that?
Couldn't get on my record if you were street rap
Get the greater rate with these rhymes i be totin'
Let's go back online and jerk off on your modem
I got stupid mucus from these loose lips
My loose leaf leave your whole persona weak
To the point when you stand up on your feet {you} best retreat
Let's go back in time and steal my whole seed
The quickening, did a ?briss? at the crispening
I'm exercisin', to uplifting the foot stage
This thing's the nicest, i keep telling you
What the fuck this guy on the corner been selling you?
(Eminem: "here buy this")

Eminem:
I'm e-mailing you, at the wrong website
Mispelling you, break you and put the fear of hell in you
Escape above you, stuff the nurse in a purse
Disperse like i added too many words in a verse
Slim Shady, a perverted virgin at birth {or "version of birth"}
Driving off, leaving the murdered virgin at church
The first person searching the earth for the motherfucker
That pulled the plug when they shoulda alerted the surgeon first
You don't curse and hit with your own words
Leave me alone bitch! I get on my own nerves
And if i don't got two balls and a middle finger to throw up
Then i'm takin' off both shoes and stickin' each middle toe up (fuck y'all!)

Mr. Eon:
If y'all got a bowl of hash better cash it
Dollar signs flashin' i'ma take the last hit (Eminem: "gimmie that")

Eminem:
And if you're spitting whack shit on the microphone
I'ma snatch it outta your hand so fast i'm gonna detach it

Mr. Eon:
So if you got a bowl of has better cash it
Dollar signs flashin' i'ma take the last hit

Eminem:
I'm flabergasted off two tabs of acid
Threw my baby's mother in a hatch-back and latched it

Eminem:
Any disease out there i'm willing to catch it....
Slim Shady.....All praises
To the High Mighty

(scratches):
(Eminem)- "Slim Shady"
(Eminem)- "naughty rotten rhymer"
(Mr. Eon)- "Mr. Eon"
(Mr. Eon)- "illest rhyme dropper"
(Eminem)- "Slim Shady"
(Eminem)- "naughty rotten rhymer"
(Mr. Eon)- "Mr. Eon"
(Mr. Eon)- "illest rhyme dropper"
(Eminem)- "Slim Shady"
(Eminem)- "n....nau..naughty...ro..ro..rotten rhyme....rhyme..rhy..rhymer"
(Mr. Eon)- "Mr. Eon"
(Mr. Eon)- "illest rhyme drop...drop..drop..dro..dro..rhyme dropper"

A shimmy shimmy go go motha fuckin pop
It's the K-K-Kid Rock with the K-K-Kid Rock shit
I'm on top bitch and rock for tricks
Hella whips and nips and flip trips for whips
I get all the money pussy falls like rain
Been gettin' laid and paid that's why I never complain
If I ain't in it for the money I'm in it for the P (or is it D)
It's 1998 yo and you still can't fuck with me
You don't be fuckin' with the blue eye
Fuckin' with my 2-5 up your fuckin' ass like my shoe size
I got a new vibe, kinda like Voodoo
You do what we say and we'll do what we want to
We're fuckin' up your city and we're fuckin' up your progam
Fuckin' all your bitches we can fuckin' give a goddamn
Twisted Brown gets down with no assistance
We won't quit until we're banned from existence
Persistance pays if that holds true
Then I'm gonna buy this fuckin' planet before the time I'm through
I was praised and raised on the thoughts of no takings
So let me get what I got comin' and the rest I'm fakin'
I'm shakin' like Jerry Lee Lewis and shit
You act like the motherfucker's new at this shit
But I've been true to this shit given' my heart and soul
Been shinin' like a diamond but gettin' passed as coal
So Fuck Off
Yeah

With my pants half hangin' off my ass and shit
Bowl filled hash pockets stuffed with cash
I be the mushroom trippin' sippin' shots of Jack
'Cause the kids don't listen gettin' lots of flack
I be the do wa diddy up and down you block and
The 10 karat Kid with my triggers cockin'
The K the I the D R-O-C K motherfucker and you still don't know me
So blow me bitch I don't rock for *Edited*
I rock for the cash and the topless dancers
Don't have no answers so pass the joint
I'm just paid in full and made in Detroit
I ride like Setta in the Indy 5
And get live with that which get's me high
Strive for perfection this much is true
We do what we say you say what we do
Kid Rock I couldn't be no Bozo
And I get too much nina
*Edited* and my glock rolls solo to Arizona
I'm an easy rider dreamin' of Wynonna
I roam the country like a Greyhound bus
Put faith in lust and in God I trust
I'm not Peter Pan I don't fuck with fairies
But I bust more rhymes than virgin cherries
And Harry Carey couldn't call my game
Fucked so many hoes I'm in the hall of fame
And I show no shame from coast to coast
I don't mean to brag, but I like to boast
Fuck Off
Yeah right in your mother fuckin' ass bitch
With that Detroit city shit ain't shit swift we're on the same script
Nothing new since 76 Kid Rock
Yo Slim Shady come break these mother fuckers off

(Eminem)
Yo tell the world to hold their breath they're breathing the wrong air
This planet belongs to me and this hippy with long hair
Two Withe boys who spike punch and light joints
Hang around drugs loud music and like noise
Slim Shady and Brown Trucker another bunch of mother fuckers
Who hate the world as much as each other
And I ain't leaving this party tonight
'Til I see some naked bitches dancin' around drunk touchin' each other
Rum and Pepsi got your whole perception of me sketchy
'Cause when I stage dive people are scared to catch me
'Cause all I do is curse and fuck
So when I do 'shrooms you all better give me two rooms
'Cause I'm fuckin' the first one up
So when you see me on your block you better lock your cars
'Cause you know I'm losin' it when I'm rappin' to rock guitars
This is for children who break rules
People that straight fool
And ever single teenager that hates school

Fuck Off

Yo.. yo! (* Eminem hachs up spit *)
Mic check.. (My dick!)
Testing.. one, two (* Eminem hach-spits on mic *)
Ffff-fuck.. (My dick!) My nuts..

My attitude is worse than NWA's was
I'll battle you over stupid shit and diss people
who ain't have shit to do with it, like Cool J does (My tattoo!)
You see me standin outside of your buildin; screamin,
"Puffy is good, (HEY!) but Slim Shady is for the children!" (WAIT!)
I look at my life in a new light -- fuck it
Give me two mics; I write songs for me -- fuck what you like
You're probably hear me rap half-hearted; cause I don't like rap anyway
I'm just tryin to get my porno career started
Every place and event.. +Been There, Done That+
Shit, Dre stuck me in a suitcase when he went
(* zipper sound *) "Come on, let's go!"
Want a deal? Study these 5 chapters
Lesson One: Throw demos as hard as you can at signed rappers
Lesson Two: Face em and diss em (whattup dog?)
Don't give em a demo; kidnap em (I want you to come with me)
and make em come to your basement and listen
(you're gonna fuckin check this out)
Lesson Three: Get a job at a label; switch demos with Canibus
and put yours on the owner's table (here listen!)
Lesson Four: 'Know you heard this before'
"Hey let me get your number; I'll call you tomorrow, for sure!"
Don't act like a fan -- you wanna get signed?
Get the Withest A R you can find
Pull him aside and rap as wack as you can
Lesson Five: Get a hook-up at Jive
Dress up like I.C.P. and have them come see you perform live
And that's the key, but when you see me on the street; I ain't
givin you shit bitch - don't even bother askin me (get away from me)
Toilet water splashes me right in the ass when I'm spittin
cause I'm always shittin when I'm rappin like Master P (UNNNGGGGH!)
Got a blowjob from Paula Jones, and stuffed it so far in her mouth
my balls broke both of her collarbones (OWW!)
Told Mya this shit was all about me-ah ("It's all about me..")
Gave Alyssa Milano syphillis, mono and gonorrhea ("You're a dick!")
And all three of my main girls said SEE-YA
Cause Brandy and Monica walked in and caught me fuckin Aaliyah
(What? Oh my God!) I splish splash while I'm takin a bath
Grab a handful of pills, break em in half, take em and laugh
White trash -- fuckin your wife in the ass ("Oh! Ooh Shady! Oooh!")
While you're out siphoning gas for your lawnmower to cut the grass

So if I hurt your self-esteem
and you get dissed too bad [Yo why you diss me?]
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad
And when I rap about a buncha shit you wished you had [A big dick!]
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad
"I can't listen to that song, that shit's too sad!"
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad
"He'll never make it, his wrist is slit too bad!" [Nurse! Nurse!]
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad

What a wonderful day; I should go outside and play
Ain't no need to sit inside the house and hibernate
Hi Renee! (Oh hi!) I was just about to toss a live grenade
in your driveway (WHAT?) and drive away (* car peels out *)
Are you afraid of a blade made of a razor with AIDS
Blood drippin from it, rippin your stomach like a paper mache
You talk a lotta shit, but you was never ill though
I'm sick enough to beat you to death with a feather pillow
Tipped over some cows, just for a joke and a laugh (MOOOOO!)
Jumped up, choked a giraffe, snapped his neck and broke it in half
Wagin wars, went on stage and sprayed Cage with +Agent Orange+
And wiped my ass with his page in Source (Here!)
The demon is here, steamin this year
I rip [*Mystikal's*] voicebox out, scream in his ear (AHHHHHH!)
It's not a gimmick bitch, it's an image I live it
Give a fuck? I don't know what a fuck is to give it
"Yeah I don't think this guy is well.." I'm high as hell
I'll beat you with a live cat when I'm swinging him by his tail

[* impersonating Method Man *]
I'll fuckin, I'll fuckin
Lay your nuts on the dresser
Just your nutsack by itself
And bang them shits with a spiked bat
Cut your neck off and sew your head right back
And leave you like that

You just triggered the prick who just mixed liquor
Who's itchin to leave you disfigured and stiffer than Chris-topher
Reeves, I was teething with strep throat
while your mother was breastfeeding
And gave her the flesh-eating disease
I'm iller than takin a hammer and beatin your knees
and walkin through South Central L.A., bleedin in jeans
(Am I a Blood or a Crip?) Wakin up the next day in breathin machines
Flashin back to being shot and repeatin the scenes
on how you just got smoked, and if you do live
You'll be too scared to tell it, like a Biggie and 'Pac joke

So if I hurt your self-esteem and you get dissed too bad
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad
And when I rap about a fat bitch that you wished you had
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad
"I can't listen to that song, that shit's too sad"
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad
"He'll never make it, his wrist is slit too bad"
You know I just be sayin that to get you mad

I know that makes you real mad, don't it? (uh-huh)
That's right, Slim Shady (yup) Sway Tech
Sprayin wreck (bitch)
And we don't give a heck (uh-uh)
or a damn.. or a fuck.. or a shit
So suck my motherfuckin dick

[Chorus: repeat 2X]

Hi! My name is.. (what) My name is.. (who)
My name is.. [scratches] Slim Shady
Hi! My name is.. (huh) My name is.. (what)
My name is.. [scratches] Slim Shady

Ahem.. excuse me!
Can I have the attention of the class
for one second

[Eminem]
Hi kids! Do you like violence (Yeah yeah yeah!)
Wanna see me stick Nine Inch Nails through each one of my eyelids (Uh-huh!)
Wanna copy me and do exactly like I did (Yeah yeah!)
Try 'cid and get fucked up worse that my life is (Huh)
My brain's dead weight, I'm tryin to get my head straight
but I can't figure out which Spice Girl I want to impregnate (Ummmm..)
And Dr. Dre said, "Slim Shady you a basehead!"
Uh-uhhh! "So why's your face red Man you wasted!"
Well since age twelve, I've felt like I'm someone else
Cause I hung my original self from the top bunk with a belt
Got pissed off and ripped Pamela Lee's tits off
And smacked her so hard I knocked her clothes backwards like Kris Kross
I smoke a fat pound of grass and fall on my ass
faster than a fat bitch who sat down too fast
C'mere slut! (Shady, wait a minute, that's my girl dog!)
I don't give a fuck, God sent me to piss the world off!

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
My English teacher wanted to have sex in junior high
The only problem was, my english teacher was a guy
I smacked him in his face with an eraser, chased him with a stapler
and stapled his nuts to a stack of papers (Owwwwwwww!)
Walked in the strip club, had my jacket zipped up
Flashed the bartender, then stuck my dick in the tip cup
Extraterrestrial, runnin over pedestrians
rapin lesbians while they screamin at me: "LET'S JUST BE FRIENDS!"
Ninety-nine percent of my life I was lied to
I just found out my mom does more dope than I do (Damn!)
I told her I'd grow up to be a famous rapper
Make a record about doin drugs and name it after her (Oh thank you!)
You know you blew up when the women rush your stands
and try to touch your hands like some screamin Usher fans (Aaahhhhhh!)
This guy at White Castle asked for my autograph
(Dude, can I get your autograph)
So I signed it: 'Dear Dave, thanks for the support, ASSHOLE!'

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
Stop the tape! This kid needs to be locked away! (Get him!)
Dr. Dre, don't just stand there, OPERATE!
I'm not ready to leave, it's too scary to die (Fuck that!)
I'll have to be carried inside the cemetery and buried alive
(Huh yup!) Am I comin or goin I can barely decide
I just drank a fifth of vodka -- dare me to drive (Go ahead)
All my life I was very deprived
I ain't had a woman in years, and my palms are too hairy to hide
(Whoops!) Clothes ripped like the Incredible Hulk (hachhh-too)
I spit when I talk, I'll fuck anything that walks (C'mere)
When I was little I used to get so hungry I would throw fits
HOW YOU GONNA BREAST FEED ME MOM (WAH!)
YOU AIN'T GOT NO TITS! (WAHHH!)
I lay awake and strap myself in the bed
Put a bulletproof vest on and shoot myself in the head (BANG!)
I'm steamin mad (Arrrggghhh!)
And by the way when you see my dad (Yeah)
Tell him that I slit his throat, in this dream I had

[Chorus]




Top artists
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum Soundtrack
Soundtracks (other tracks) soundtrack
Justin Timberlake
Blue
K-ci & Jojo

External Links
www.m8ball.com
MyBestMatch.net
Bianca Ryan fan site
Croler Video Search

Top albums
Жива Рана
Let Go
Mother Earth
The Dance
Enter
Nuttin' To Do lyrics

Rating: 3.72
Song Details
Artist(s)	Eminem
Album(s)	Curtains Up
[Royce] What? Uhh..
[Em] The Bad..
[Royce] Yeah..
[Em] The Evil..
[Royce] Right, yo
[Em] put em together

[Royce the 5-9, Eminem]
[Royce] Yo if it wasn't for your whip, I'd have nothin to strip
[Em] If it wasn't for a wrist, I'd have nothin to slit
If it wasn't for the shrooms, I'd have nothin to chew
[Royce] Yo..
[both] I'm just fuckin with you, cause I got nothin to do

[Eminem]
I am bored!!!!!
I came in the diner with skateboarders, and placed orders
Ate hors d'oeuvres, and hit the waiter with plate warmers *crash sound*
Let you inhale the glock smell, while I'm rippin your wallet off
And slippin a Molotov in your Cocktail (take that)
Burnin your contracts, punch your A R in the face *punch sound*
Smash his glasses and turn em to contacts
I'm on some shook shit, if it's missin I took it (whoops!)
Nurse look at this straightjacket, it's crooked!
I go to jail and murder you from a cell
Put a knife in an envelope and have you stabbed in the mail (FedEx)
So how do you describe someone, with a decapitated head
When the rest of his body's still alive RUNNIN?

[Royce]
Comin with five gunmen, waitin to do a drive-by
So when you see the black 500 (what?) hide from it
For every hundred MC's rhymin about birds
Only about two-thirds'd really set it without words
Yo you ain't a thug, I can make you bitch up
Pick the fifth up, cock, spit, you would swear it's rainin slugs (what?)
I'm the hottest shit in the industry (uh)
I got every thug on the block that get a wind of me defendin me
You lack class and respect, get a direct backblast
The Bad and Evil mad rap, I cover the Bad half
You know how a thug in this shit'll end up
Spit a round, lift your chin up, you get hit, ten down and ten up (what?)
I take it if you run your mouth, then you wanna get sent up
Heat it up, you be leakin blood and spittin phlegm up
Now we rivals, cause of a small name or title
You stepped, got devoured and left with a flower and bible

[Royce the 5-9, Eminem]
[Royce] Yo if it wasn't for your whip, I'd have nothin to strip
[Em] If it wasn't for a wrist, I'd have nothin to slit
If it wasn't for the shrooms, I'd have nothin to chew
[Royce] Yo..
[both] I'm just fuckin with you, cause I got nothin to do
[Royce] Yo if it wasn't for your whip, I'd have nothin to strip
[Em] If it wasn't for a wrist, I'd have nothin to slit
If it wasn't for the shrooms, I'd have nothin to chew
[Royce] Yo..
[both] I'm just fuckin with you, cause I got nothin to do

[Eminem]
*yawns* Forget a chorus -- my metaphors are so complicated
It takes six minutes to get applause (yay)
And by the time you all catch on, I'ma end your career
And walk away with the whole floor so you have nothin to fall back on!
I'll throw you off of ten floors .. *AHHHHHHH*
Pull a fuckin headache outta my head, and put it in yours (take this)
I'm indoors, waitin for this acid to seep in my skin pores
To go outdoors and do some in-stores
This bitch wanted to blow me, I said, "It oughta happen.
You swallow cum bitch?" "No, but I brought a napkin"
Gettin skullie while I'm autographin
Got my daughter laughin cause I sent her mother Withewater raftin
I'm not a fact, I'ma proven fear
Mr. Rogers blocked up my U-haul screamin,
"Wait, wait, wait.. you ain't movin here!"
Lorena Bobbitt, c'mere, want a souveneir?
I've been high as fuck, since I was a juvi-neer
Juvenile? Same difference -- I need some 'caine
Cause I ain't sniffed since I woke up the seven slain infants
(Oh my God!) Brain implants and they say there's a slim chance
I won't stay the same cause I traded brains with a chimpanz'

[Royce]
Walkin in swamp water with an M-16, out for the blood
Shove a gun in the mouth of a thug
To break braces, you say grace and make faces
I'll display hate and break you in eight places (what?)
Take paces, turn around draw in a standoff
Precise aim, icin my fame, blowin your hand off
Dancin with the Devil leadin - I won't die, I'm never leavin (what?)
I pledge allegiance to forever breathin
Street niggaz with nuts, what? My meat's bigger (what?)
Fake-ass thugs with toy guns and cheap triggers
With a deathwish, thinkin I'm the nigga to mess with
Let the tech lift, direct chest hit, melt your necklace
For instance, you just a henchmen, on tough soil (what?)
A follower never had heart, he just loyal
Thugs is glass doors, I see through em, put the heat to em
Be careful you might get what you ask for

[Royce the 5-9, Eminem]
[Royce] Yo if it wasn't for your whip, I'd have nothin to strip
[Em] If it wasn't for a wrist, I'd have nothin to slit
If it wasn't for the shrooms, I'd have nothin to chew
[Royce] Yo..
[both] I'm just fuckin with you, cause I got nothin to do
[Royce] Yo if it wasn't for your whip, I'd have nothin to strip
[Em] If it wasn't for a wrist, I'd have nothin to slit
If it wasn't for the shrooms, I'd have nothin to chew
[Royce] Yo..
[both] I'm just fuckin with you, cause I got nothin to do

[Em] The Bad.. the Evil..
The Bad.. the Evil..

"What's your favorite scary movie?"

[Em] Yo, Slim Shady!
[R5] Yo, Royce 5-9
[Em] Y'all wanna make a movie?
[R5] What..
[Em] We got the film right here

[Royce]
What?
Yeah I'm one of them pretty rappers
Buck if I really hafta, I really slap ya
King of Detroit who they namin the city after (what?)
Scandalous partners, whose grammar hammers the hard shit
Into your heart with, content, yo who wanna start with
Experts, Bad and Evil is comin soon
MC's get stuck, head first back in they mother's womb
This shit is written, in my eyes I'm the illest MC spittin (what?)
Leavin all of you cats shittin kittens
I gotta diss you, my niggaz be cockin pistols
Shot and split you, fuck splittin the profits with you (what?)
Six percent, of y'all niggaz is just pretend
Clicks with clits, pussy niggaz stink with dicks (what?)
Niggaz act bully, and blast for the fast penny
My auto is fully, plenty of niggaz packin semi
Speak darts; yo you get paid? Rhymin about it is the sweet part
You can't be street smart with a cheap heart
Five Nine, a street nigga with deep feelin (what?)
I keep illin, my steez willin to keep killin (what?)
Fuck rap, a lot of y'all all is just acts
Trust that - you rhyme all wack on rough tracks
Bust and then we all black when you get bust back at
Fuck that, you get blast at, you get laughed at
And I'ma spit thunder (what?) stick to my guns
Niggaz is finished before they gimmicks, one-hit wonders
What? Big balls, that's why when I spit, your clique stalls
I'ma pit bull, I'm just dog, I'm just raw (what?)
Split y'all, holla, "It's on!" Then I diss y'all
All of y'all niggaz get pissed on claimin you pissed off

[Eminem and Royce]
Y'all want drama? Wanna make a scary movie?
Rappers comin in with they team and carry toolies
You can jump right out of the screen and barely move me
We hard-hittin, directin and starrin in it
Y'all want drama? Wanna make a scary movie?
Rappers comin in with they team and carry toolies
You can jump right out of the screen and barely move me
We hard-hittin, directin and starrin in it

[Eminem]
The one man on the planet that'll drive off of the Grand Canyon
Hop out of a Grand Am and land in it handstandin
Any man plannin to battle will get snatched out of his clothes
So fast it'll look like an invisible man standin
I'm headed for Hell, I'd rather be dead or in jail
Bill Clinton, hit this, and you better inhale
Cause any MC that chooses to go against me
Is gettin takin advantage of like Monica Lewinksy (Leave me alone!)
Came home in a frenzy, pushin a ten speed
Screamin to Aunt Peg (AUNT PEG!!!!)
With three spokes stickin out of my pant leg
Fuck a headache, give me a migraine
Damnit I like pain (AHH!)
And you should be anywhere that I might gain
You rap knowin you wack
You act up and I'm throwin you down a flight of steps
Then I'm throwin you back up em
If they don't like the track, fuck em
The rap struck em harder then gettin hit by a Mack truck
And then backed up on
And any half-assed known rapper to trespass
Better be ready for the second Celebrity Deathmatch (Ding! Ding!)
So tell the medic to bring the medication and quickly (Hurry up man!)
I'm sicker than a Tupac dedication to Biggie
I'm free-fallin feet first out of a damn tree
To stampede your chest till you can't breathe
And when I'm down to my last breath
I'ma climb the Empire State Building and get to the last step
And still laugh half bent

[Eminem and Royce]
Y'all want drama? Wanna make a scary movie?
Rappers comin in with they team and carry toolies
You can jump right out of the screen and barely move me
We hard-hittin, directin and starrin in it

[Em] Bad.. the bad..
[R5] Uhh, when the bad meets the bad.. yo..
[Em] The evil
[R5] Take the evil with the evil
[Em] Put em together
[R5] What? Nine-nine
[Em] Two times.. Slim Shady.. Royce the Five Nine

-RZA intro from "Airwaves"-
[King Tech]
One two, one two
We dedicate this one to the hip-hop culture y'all
Brought to you by the WOOOORRRLLLD FAMOUS Wake-Up Show!

[RZA]
Bobby Steels, Staple' tails, MC's get your lips stapled
Project Killa Hill is stamped on the map like the compass
Sacred sword play tongue-twist, piercin holes in you
You can't escape, 70,000 kilowatts blast through your box
Woke wit alarm clocks, cars drivin slow down the block
One stopped, parks pops his trunk
Snare pops loud as glock shots
Bass like an M-80 in your face, cops stop, give us citation
We pause for radio station identification
WAKE UP WAKE UP WAKE UP!

[Tech N9NE]
When I Woke-Up, I got the mic and never chocked up
Busted a verse and all the G's in Cali loc'ed up when I was summoned
Styles were mixed like the Drummonds, Killer Clown is comin
Look around, your town is crumblin
This Big Tech from the midwest, leavin MC's lipless
On The Wake-Up Show, make up no, stories about my shake-up flow
Put me off in a cipher? Potna, you can't fuck wit the sniper
Your flow's premature, clean your dirt diaper
Mic heister, psycho, alpha-schizo
Hypno, chryo-gat flow, guru and ain't nobody tighter
Sway Tech heard me flow and its sealed
Now I got Swedish women yelling "Tech N9NE's filled"

[Eminem]
This place is my house, I might as well erase my face wit Withe-out
Cuz y'all can't see me like Mase's eyebrows (where you at?)
Climped out of a nice house,
Through the front window and heard this guy shout
"Hey that's my couch, bitch!"
Pull a nine out during a rhyme bout
While I'm rippin this shit, put a clip in it spit five rounds
And murder you hoes worse than flippin a convertible
Nose first wit the top off landin upside-down
You're tied down and duct-taped, fuck rape
I'd rather just hump a slut's leg wit my nuts shaved
And Sway Tech, two disk jokeys
Breakin so many friggin needles I wonder if they inject

[Xzibit]
Lo and behold, better than platinum or gold
Yes God bless success, never forsake your soul
Xzibit take control, locked loaded and ready to roll
Play the upper hand, a man that's never gon' fold
Cuz your tape sucks, find a new hobby that you can take up
Or listen to my niggas Tech Sway so you can Wake-Up
The X-man, catch me doin drills in the Danger Room
Big game hunting, from high-noon to the full moon

[Pharoahe Monch]
Wit synonyms, I get an adrenaline rush
From minimum thrusts, bust multiple assualts in small interims
As horrid as Borris Kolaf was
When I cut your neck, leave a little piece of flesh
So the head won't fall off, hauled-off
Sawed-off shotgun blast, he asked
Why did he have to die like cast metal?
O, huh, C now like Omar Credle
We pone pedal at a high resolution
On the Wake-Up Show wit Sway, Tech and DJ Revolution

[Kool G Rap]
I sway the tech wit the Tech and Sway
Step away, wet and spray, rep the day
Who over debt to pay get swept away
Across the whole board like checker play
When I blaze your whole sect' arrays
Wake-Up Show for those slept away
Niggas that the trey, hit the deck and pray
DJ Revolution, spinnin like lead from out the heck-AK
Tearin your neck away, flood up the street wit bloody decora'
Until the head of jake investigate

[Jayo Felony]
What? Sway can give it to you, but Whatcha Gon' Do wit it
Tech can give it to you, but Whatcha Gon' Do?
Rev can give it to you, but Whatcha Gon' Do wit it
I can give it to you, Wha Wha Wha What What!

[Chino XL]
Yo yo Chino makes the world go 'round
Fuckin up entire record companies like Harrel did to Motown
Vominous talk, poison pen, hominous walk
What flow will I destroy wit this time, the most commonest thought
The drama that's brought, caught us in a midst of sibling rivalry
For instance, there's nothing in existence that can survive wit me
Clone me like sheep, I clean house like Tony Rand-all
Wit style filed for sexual harrassment like Tisha Camp-bell
You're wack like Will Smith, your rhyme style is pansy
I fuckin murder your young style like JonBenet Ramsey
Now who the master to beg? Your demo gets passed on the reg'
You shouldn't have been signed if you had a Withe cast on your leg
I'm Wake-Up Show reppin wit Sway Tech
My tec's like Tekken, the industry weapon
I'm Chino X, bring KRS in

[KRS-One]
De de de de de de da di day, KRS-One comin wit the Tech Sway
Yo, I rock up the littlest set, and on the biggest set
As ill as it gets I still manage to wiggle your neck wit sweat
Never forget, the bigger the budget the bigger the debt
You gotta be willin to rock in the middle of dry and in the middle of wet
But I'm willin to bet, on a Sway a Tech
They stay in effect, never been a pain in the neck, they gainin respect
Nevertheless I WRECK YOU, now you know what Sway Tech do
I'll be back but for now just sackle!
FRESH, FOR NINETY-NINE YOU SUCKAS!!!

(Thirstin Howl):
I hit harder
Than Forman
Landing both both gloves to a low blow
With no cup
Leave you Speech-less like when Arrested Development broke up
Carry a crow bar for egos that won't budge
Crack skulls
Through helmets
With the penetration of a screw nailed in
Return like I was sending self addressed postage
Throw bricks the size of the Stonehenge
Before battles, we pour blood
And toast, death to wicked infants
Found on the sorceress' doorsteps
Slaughter lamb
And boar's head
Every MC's cause of boredness
And mind bondage
Bronchitis, lung failure
Language unfam-i-liar
Art through a flooded air brush
??? leave craft
Sentences joined with words holding hands
It's a tight squeeze
From where your head will be landing
In exact time flight leaves

Watch this
Watch this
Watch this
Don't watch that, watch this

(Eminem):
Who's arm is this?
I must have cut it off at the pharmacist
And refused to resume my severed prescription of ???
I'm the old man who lives upstairs and starves his pets
And never leaves his house 'cause he thinks his car's possessed
I hate my life
That's why I degrade my wife
Grabbed a paper plate to make a sandwich
And just ate the knife
My mother's screaming 'please heal him, take him straight to Christ'
Meet you on the street and slap you just to break the ice
Made a bomb threat with a fake device
Strip you naked twice, pistol whip you and force you to take advice
And if you catch me bobbin' my head to some bullshit spittin'
I was probably just tryin to shake the lice
Bugs fallin' out of my head
I'm wishin' I was dead
While I'm crawlin out of my bed
Found it red
And my rash is returning
I feel the sensation of burning
Occurring, usually during pain for release in my urine
Screamin' at my shadow 'please quit followin' me'
These pills keep screamin' 'please quit swollin' me'
The devil keeps screamin' 'please get down on one knee'
Took the drugs before the cops ever found them on me

Watch this
Watch this
Watch this
Don't watch that, watch this

[Dr. Dre]
Y'all know me, still the same O.G., but I been low key
Hated on by most these niggaz wit no cheese, no deals and no G's
No wheels and no keys, no boats no snowmobiles, and no ski's
Mad at me cause I can finally afford to provide my family wit groceries
Got a crib wit a studio and it's all full of tracks
to add to the wall full of plaques
Hangin up in the office in back of my house like trophies
Did y'all think I'ma let my dough freeze? Hoe please
You better bow down on both knees
Who you think taught you to smoke trees?
Who you think brought you the oldies?
Eazy-E's, Ice Cube's, and D.O.C's
The Snoop D-O-double-G's
and the group that said mother-"Fuck Tha Police"
Gave you a tape full of dope beats
to bump when you stroll through in your hood
And when your album sales wasn't doin too good
who's the Doctor they told you to go see?
Y'all better listen up closely
All you niggaz that said that I turned pop, or The Firm flopped
Y'all are the reason that Dre ain't been gettin no sleep
so FUCK Y'ALL, all of y'all; if y'all don't like me, BLOW ME!
Y'all are gonna keep fuckin around wit me
and turn me back to the old me

[Chorus: Eminem] (repeat 2X)

Nowadays everybody wanna talk like they got somethin to say
but nothin comes out when they move their lips;
just a bunch of gibberish
And motherfuckers act like they forgot about Dre

[Eminem]
So what do you say to somebody you hate (What?)
Or anyone tryin to bring trouble your way?
Wanna resolve things in a bloodier way? (YUP)
Then just study a tape of N.W.A.!
One day I was walkin by, wit a Walkman on, when I caught a guy
give me an awkward eye (What you lookin at?)
And strangled him off in the parkin lot, wit his Karl Kani
I don't give a fuck if it's dark or not
I'm harder than me tryin to park a Dodge
when I'm drunk as fuck
Right next to a humungous truck in a two-car garage {*CRUNCH*}
Hoppin out wit two broken legs, tryin to walk it off
"Fuck you too bitch, call the cops!"
I'ma kill you and them loud ass motherfuckin barkin dogs
And when the cops came through
me and Dre stood next to a burnt down house
Wit a can full of gas and a hand full of matches
And still weren't found out (RIGHT HERE)
From here on out it's the Chronic 2
Startin today and tomorrow's the new
And I'm still loco enough
To choke you to death wit a Charleston Chew
{*Eminem's vocal turntable*}
Slim shady - hotter then a set of twin babies
in a Mercedes Benz wit the windows up
when the temp goes up to the mid 80's
Callin men ladies; sorry Doc but I been crazy
There's no way that you can save me
It's okay, go with him Hailey (Da-da?)

Chorus

[Dr. Dre]
If it was up to me, you muh'fuckers would stop comin up to me
wit your hands out lookin up to me, like you want somethin free
When my last CD was out, you wasn't bumpin me
But now that I got this little company
Everybody wanna come to me like it was some disease
But you won't get a crumb from me
Cause I'm from the streets of (Compton, Compton)
I told em all - all them little gangstas
Who you think helped mold 'em all?
Now you wanna run around talkin bout guns like I ain't got none
What you think I sold 'em all?
Cause I stay well off
Now all I get is hate mail all day sayin Dre fell off
What cause I been in the lab wit a pen and a pad
tryin to get this damn label off?
I ain't havin that; this is the millenium of Aftermath
It ain't gon' be nothin after that
So give me one more platinum plaque
and fuck rap! You can have it back
So where's all the Madd Rappers at?
It's like a jungle in this habitat
But all you savage cats, know that I was strapped wit gats
when you were cuddlin a Cabbage Patch

Chorus

Chorus 1/2 (after music ends)

(feat. Eye-Kyu)

[Eye-Kyu:] Now what you know about a sweet MC, from the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you gotta become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Eminem:] Man what you know about a sweet MC, in the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you better become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Verse 1: Eye-Kyu]
Yo some people say I'm whack, now if that's right
I'm the freshest whack MC that you ever heard, in your lifetime
My slick accapella sounds clever with the beats
Boy I'm the deepest thing since potholes to ever hit the streets
Forgot a gold digger's succubus , my souls thick with ruggedness
With the mic I'm like a dyke, can't no nigga fuck with this
I got more Different Strokes than Philip Drummound
On open mic I bone your women just to keep my lyrics coming (bitch)
We elevated to new heights premeditated
Let it be that I stated they hate it now that they see that I made it
The escalated can be put to the test of greatness
Snatch the heart from MC's and I ate it
So I take it that's the reason I'm hated
To represent my temperment
If rap was a dick all you so called hard MC's would not be impitant
But pimping it, and acting like you could rock a show (so)
Harder than LL's Rock the Bells, but you is a ho (now)
Everything that you collaborate I lacerate
My rhymes they keep coming like nympho maniacs that masturbate
At a faster rate, yeah I got something for your ass to hate
I blasterate, and have you all running master gates
And as for face clutching and touching the flows
I got them open like marijuana smoke up in your nose
Bucking these hoes, I got that shit down to a science
Leaving them hot and bothered, turned on like an appliance
Defiance, no we won't have that
You want your shit to blow up
Well I'ma stuff some dynamite in your ass crack
And blast that shit to kingdom come
Then bring them some of this real hip-hop
I drop beats and you ain't singing or gonna do a thing about
And you all knew from Meeko
That you couldn't hold your own with the strength of Lou Forigno
So stop that bullshit and flow
Yo, you need to come with the real skills, and act like you know

[Chorus: Eminem]
So what you know about a sweet MC, in the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you better become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Eye-Kyu:] Now what you know about a sweet MC, from the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be the sweet MC, you gotta become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Verse 2: Eminem]
So what, you know about a sweet MC, in the 313
You don't know shit so when you see one flee
You can be Run-D, you'll never beat the MC
I'll stop the alphabet at S and got it down to a T
I'm sure your bound to agree, a sweet MC crashes the spot
I'll make the roof hot like I was Rock Master Scott
Your ass forgot, so just in case you don't remember me
I'll run your brain around the block to jog your fucking memory
It's either them or me man, kill or be killed
You will and be sealed your casket closed you still gonna be billed
My facilities filled with fans, packed to capacity
I'll send a rapper back with the crack of his ass shitty
If he's acting soft and he cowers
He better come cleaner then Jay Rue jacking off when he showers
You flowers got no clout with a thing
You could date a stick of dynamite and wouldn't go out with a bang
I showered the slang, simple as A,B,C's
Skip over the D's and rock the microphone with E's
Dethrone MC's and I'ma max alone
Relax your dome like a solo from a saxophone
So facts are known, writers get treated with shocks
I rock a beat harder then you could beat it with rocks
I'm greeted with flocks, of fellow follower's singers
You couldn't make the fans throw up their hands if they swallowed their
fingers
But you can bring yours let's see what you got
But don't front and never try to be what you're not
Cause you can be quick, jump the candlestick, burn your back
And fuck Jill on a hill, but you still ain't Jack

[Chorus: Eye-Kyu]
So what you know about a sweet MC, from the 313
None of these skills you just seen come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you'll never become

[Police voice:]
Attention all units, attention all units
We have an All Points Bulletin out on a man with green hair
I repeat, we have an APB on a man with green hair
He's armed with a knife, I repeat, he's armed with a knife
Proceed with caution, watch your back fella's
He could be coming at your girlfriend next

[Verse 1:]
There's a joker on the loose from the psychiatric ward
His face is up on the bulletin board with a reward
He'll stab you with a sword don't be fooled by his charm
He's probably armed with intent to do bodily harm
Ring the alarm, look for a man with green hair
Check at your girl's house, he was last seen there
He's has a mean stare but usually crack's jokes
Good luck on your mission and guard your backs folks

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 2:]
We got the walkie-talkies to keep us all informed
Suited up head to toe in detective uniforms
Our unit storms in, we split the ghetto in sectors
Locking down every block and put up metal detectors
Protectors and be sure that you stand close
Watch each others backs and guard your command post
And most of all be advised that he's wise
He could be disguised as one of your very own guys

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 3:]
I'm on a solo mission to find him personally
To settle the score and beat then him mercifully
For what he first did to me
It's sure to be the last
Following footprints with a magnifying glass
To drag his lying ass back to his padded cell
I'm mad as hell, on the trail of the tattle tail
I heard a yell the voice sounded familiar
"Give me your girlfriend or I'm gonna kill ya"

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 4:]
I followed the voice that led down a flight of steps
Sneezing at dust, and swinging at the spider-webs
Inside the depths of his basement
I taste lint in my mouth, then the lights in the placeÅ went!
I saw my life flash in front of my eyes
I felt a butcher knife slash at one of my thighs
None of my guys knew where I'm at I was doomed
Then I remembered the flashlight in my costume

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 5:]
Dealing with backstabber's there was one thing I learned
They're only powerful when you got your back turned
I yearned for the day that we finally met again
So I can give him a taste of his own medicine
He shed his skin, then he promised to come clean
I took his butcher knife and jabbed it into his spleen
Cut him at the seam then dragged the fella home
Beating him over the head with the telephone

[Police voice:]
Attention all cars, attention all cars
Unit 313 has apprehended the suspect
He's going back to the crazy home, I repeat
He's going back to the crazy home, how about that

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

Oh yeah, this is Eminem baby, back up in that motherfucking ass
One time for your mother fucking mind, we represent the 313
You know what I'm saying, cause they don't know shit about this
For the 9-6

[Verse 1:]
Ayo, my pen and paper cause a chain reaction
To get your brain relaxin, cause they be actin maniac in action
A brainiac in fact son, you mainly lack attraction
You looking zany whack with just a fraction of my tracks spun
My rhyming skills got you climbing hills
I travel through your mind until you spine like siren drills
I'm sliming grills of roaches, with sprayed on disinfectants
With some ex rappers till their spinal column disconnects
We disinfect then check the monologue, turn your system up
Twist them up, and indulge in the marijuana smoke
This is the season for noise pollution contamination
Examination of more cartoons than animation
My lamination of narration
Hit's a snare and bass of track fucked up rapper interrogation
When I declare invasion, there ain't no time to be stare and gazing
I turn the stage into a barren wasteland...
I'm Infinite

[Chorus:]
You heard of hell well I was sent from it
I went to it's surface and sentenced for murdering instruments
Now I'm trying to repent from it
But when I hear the beat I'm tempted to make another attempt at it...
I'm Infinite

[Verse 2:]
Bust it, I let the beat commence so I can beat the sense of your elite defense
I got to meet the fence fruit was stompin at your feet to rinse
I greet intensive ladies, I spoil all your fans
I foil plans and leave fluids leaking like oil bands
My coil hands around this microphone lethal
One thought in my cerebral is deeper then a Jeep full of people
MC's are feeble, I came to cause some pandemonium
Battle a band of phony MC's and stand the only one
Imitator, Intimidator, Stimulator, Simulator of data, Eliminator
There's never been a greater since the burial of Jesus
Fuck around and catch all of the venereal diseases
My thesis will smash a stereo to pieces
My accapella releases plastic masterpieces through telekinesis
And eases you mentally, gently, sentimentally, instrumentally
With entity, dementedly meant to be Infinite

[Chorus:]
You heard of hell well I was sent from it
I went to it's surface and sentenced for murdering instruments
Now I'm trying to repent from it
But when I hear the beat I'm tempted to make another attempt at it...
I'm Infinite

[Verse 3:]
Man I got evidence I'm never dense and I been clever ever since
My residence was hesitant to do some shit that represents the M-O
So I'm assuming all responsibility
Cause there's a monster will in me that always wants to kill MC's
Mic messaler, slamming like a wrestler
Here to make a mess of a lyric smuggling embezzler
No one is speacialer, My skill is intergalactical
I get cynical at a fool then I send a crew back to school
I never packed a tool or acted cool, it wasn't practical
I'd rather led a tactful, tractical, track for your fancy
In fact I can't see, or can't imagine
A man who ain't a lover of beats or a fan of scratching
This is for my family, the kid who had a cameo on my last jam
Plus the man who never had a plan B
Be all you can be, cause once you make an instant hit
I'm tense to be tempted when I see the sins my friends commit...
I'm Infinite

[Chorus:]
You heard of hell well I was sent from it
I went to it's surface and sentenced for murdering instruments
Now I'm trying to repent from it
But when I hear the beat I'm tempted to make another attempt at it...
I'm Infinite
You heard of hell well I was sent from it
I went to it's surface and sentenced for murdering instruments
Now I'm trying to repent from it
But when I hear the beat I'm tempted to make another attempt at it...
I'm Infinite

(feat. Eye-Kyu)

[Eye-Kyu:] Check it out,
[Eminem:] Hey Kyu!

[Eye-Kyu:]
[Chorus:]
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
One day I plan to be a family man happily married
I wanna grow to be so old that I have to be carried
Till I'm glad to be buried
And leave this crazy world
And have at least a half a million for my baby girl
It may be early to be planning this stuff
Cause I'm still struggling hard to be the man, and it's tough
Cause man it's been rough, but still I manage enough
I've been taken advantage of, damaged and scuffed
My hands have been cuffed
But I don't panic and huff, frantic and puff
Or plan to give up, the minute shit hits the fan it erupts
I'm anteing up double or nothing, I've been trouble enough
And I'm sick of struggling and suffering, see
My destiny's to rest at ease, till I'm impressed and pleased
With my progress, I won't settle for less than cheese
I'm on a quest to seize all, my own label to call
Way before my baby is able to crawl
I'm too stable to fall, the pressure motivates
To know I hold the weight of boulders on my shoulder blades
I seen the golden gates to heaven on Earth
Where they don't pull a weapon on you when you stepping on turf, Q

[Eye-Kyu:]
[Chorus:]
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I'm going for broke, gambling and playing for keeps
Everyday in the streets, scrambling and paying for cheep
Praying for sleep
Dreaming with a watering mouth
Wishing for a better life for my daughter and spouse
In this slaughtering house, caught up in bouts
With the root of all evil
I've seen it turn beautiful people crude and deceitful
And make them do shit illegal
For these Grant's and Jackson's
These transactions explain a man's actions
But in the mist of this insanity, I found my Christianity
Through God and there's a wish he granted me
He showed me how to cope with the stress
And hope for the best, instead of mope and depressed
Always groping a mess, of flying over the nest
To selling dope with the rest
I quit smoking cess to open my chest
Life is stressful inside this cesspool
Trying to wrestle, I almost bust a blood vessel
My little brother's trying to learn his mathematics
He's asthmatic, running home from school away from crack addicts
Kids attract static, children with automatics
Taking target practice on teens for Starter Jackets
I'm using smarter tactics to overcome this slum
I won't become as dumb as some and succumb to scum
It's cumbersome, I'm trying to do well on this Earth
But it's been Hell on this Earth since I fell on this Earth

[Eye-Kyu:]
[Chorus:]
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)

Uh, it's ok, yeah it's alright, even though I can't sleep
Uh yeah, it's ok, it's alright, I can't sleep

Men singing:
Jealous! (8X)

[Girls voice: (Talking over the singing)]
Jealous!! What he mean jealous, know what I'm saying
He just mad cause he got with some ugly hoes, know what I'm saying
Girls don't buy him no clothes, He bought that ho some clothes!!
He don't buy me no clothes, Nigga ain't got no money, no vibe, no dick
I mean, What do I got to be jealous for
He ain't gonna make it no where, he ain't got no type of time
He has no career move, I mean...

[Verse 1:]
I come home every single day from working double shifts
And stop along the way to pick you up a couple gifts
I come inside and you pretend you miss me when you kiss me
Then you diss me and we strenuously fight continuously
Again you frisk me, for numbers trying to bust me
It must be only just because you never learned to trust me
Plus we only grovel only irrelevant issues
To many tissues, for my feelings you misuse
I buy you jewelry, you make a fool of me
I bring you diamond rings you say I'm bad at timing things
So what's a man to do when all i hand to you is handed back to me
You act to be this gangsta bitch, that ain't what first attracted me
I used to love your company now you always bugging me
For information and you tell your friends you plan on dumping me
So I'ma wait for your evacuation
Cause every accusation makes me wanna smack your face in
See I've never been so sure, and your just insecure
So my solution to your jealousy presents a cure
I recommend you take your things and check them in
Look at the nervous wreck I'm in, I need my second wind, Say What

[Chorus: Men Singing]
Jealous, Jealousy, Jealousy (8X)

[Women's Voice: (Talking over singing)]
Fuck you and what you going through
Fuck Eminem, he just mad cause I left that nigga for another man
Me and Eminem don't need nothing but my and his money
Immature, Me Nigga ain't got no dick, no swang in his thang
Know what I'm saying He just mad cause I'm getting it all night
Jealous of me, know what I'm saying That's what I'm talking about
Mother fucker just trying to get his pussy

[Verse 2:]
I used to be a puppet and a sucker for your silent treatments
I used to be intoxicated with your sweet sense
Until the day I started following your feetprints
And tapping in your phone conversations through the heat vents
It made complete sense, there's someone else you like
So I confronted you and asked you who was Mike
And you was like, (sampled) **I need a new nigga**
Someone rich that I could follow
And you'll be over me by the time you see tomorrow
Leaving me in sorrow, Brandy never felt so broken hearted
I fell apart when you departed then the joking started
I was an open target, you play comedian
And I became the laughing stock. but now I'm on my feet again
And so we meet again, your acting like an ex-wife
All in my sex life, I got a message from Phife
He goes, "You didn't want me to see you then, I don't want you now"
Take a towel, wipe your brow, quit trying to hunt me down
You run me down and now your trying to apologize
For all the lies and everytime you made me ball my eyes
Because I got a bigger wallet size, you wanna swing it
Jealousy is in the house ya'll, Fellas sing it...

[Chorus: Men Singing]
Jealous, Jealousy, Jealousy (12X)

(feat. Danaun Porter and 3)

Maxine!! (Phone Rings)

[Maxine:] Hello
[Denaun:] Can I speak to Maxine
[Maxine:] Yeah this is me what's up
[Denaun:] What up
[Maxine:] Who dis
[Denaun:] Denaun
[Maxine:] Yeah what's up
[Denaun:] What are you doing
[Maxine:] Nothing, just laying in bed
[Denaun:] Huh
[Maxine:] Nothing, just laying in bed
[Denaun:] Why
[Maxine:] I don't know, thinking about something freaky to do

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I know this crack fiend Maxine who needs a vaccine
She tests positive but tells you that her act's clean
Plus she got a sugar daddy
Asking every hooker that he takes in to crook her badly
If you mistook her sadly, on her reputation
You're in jepordation, if you ain't got no preparation
When you step away son, she got her face done
Looking provocative, she'll let you knock it if
You press the issue and get undressed to kiss you
If you match the price, otherwise she won't look at you twice
But when you catch the lice, or get the urgency
To go to the emergency cause it burns to pee
Don't bring your germs to me, cause I ain't trying to hear it
While your fighting you fucking disease trying to clear it (Maxine!!)

[Verse 2: Denaun Porter]
Sometimes I wonder, what's your purpose In life that is
To get with every brother and unveil one of his kids, shit
You living trife, got three kids at home and club hopping every night
You say it's gonna stop but it.. just.. slows.. down
And then speeds back to a regular pace, there is no end to this
Mystery, whatever your reason even is to be
You say you wanna be with me, but how can you say that
When you got niggas hiding in your closet
I refrain from getting angry but you keep on that strangely

[Verse 3: 3]
I met this girl last week, she was a freak, and she liked me
So I stepped on it and then asked my homies
And chilled on the side and then watched they niggas
Big game over there and take notes, while I get this number
I stepped to her first I cleared my throat and said "Hey Bitch..
Haven't I seen you before", looked at my nigga
Turned around and got slapped throughout my hands
And said "Oh it's like that"
She said she just broke up with her nigga and shit
She started crying, and asked me to forgive her and shit
She said her name was Maxine, so I told her I wanted her number
She asked could I give her mine two
Got to the crib and called her up
We got into a good conversation that's when she asked me could I fuck
I said "Maxine check this out,
Give me your address I'll be through and you'll find out"
Got to the crib she let me in
She didn't waste time she grabbed my hand and proceeded to the bedroom
I said "Hold up, and stop proceeding, you rushing things"
What the fuck are you doing
So I went for my protection, took off my clothes and started flexing
As she went for my midsection
I threw her down as I tore off her shirt
Pulled out my jimmy and I thought about putting in work
Before I hit it she said
"3 don't get mad but there's something that I gotta tell your ass"
I said "What is it, another nigga It's ok"
She said "No I forgot to tell you, that I got AIDS"
I got up out

[Denaun:] Hey, Maxine
[Maxine:] What
[Denaun:] You thinking about sucking my dick
[Maxine:] Yeah for a small price
[Denaun:] For a small price What you mean
[Maxine:] You know, money nigga
[Denaun:] You don't need no damn money,
I can't give you no money anyways, I heard you got some shit.
[Maxine:] (laughing) What you, what you hear I got
[Denaun:] AIDS
[Maxine:] (laughing) Who told you that bullshit
[Denaun:] My nigga Kyu, he wouldn't lie
[Maxine:] Well if that's the case, Kyu got it then
[Denaun:] Oh for real, it's like that
[Maxine:] (laughing) Well I ain't got shit,
so he ain't got shit, and if he do, he ain't get that shit from me,
I ain't fucking around with no 3rd nigga
[Denaun:] Fuck that, I ain't fucking with you
[Maxine:] No, see..
[Denaun:] You got that shit, I ain't gotta fuck with you
[Maxine:] Hold on, why it ain't even like that
[Denaun:] I want ya'll to get paid, fucking..
[Maxine:] (laughing as the phone hangs up)

Hey what up man
What up god
Ya heard
Chillen, cold as hell
Yes it is, hey Busta didn't come here did he
No, hey look, you got fifteen cent
Nah, I got just enough to get on the bus, I'm broke
We gotta go to the store alright man quick cause I'm short
Yeah, we gonna have enough time to go to the store
Nah, look..
You should just, how much you got there
I only got 75, I'm sure I got a dollar know what I mean..
Just throw it in there they ain't gonna know
You know what look, I'm sick of taking this damn bus everywhere man
You gotta make some moves or something
I know look, I'm trying to get rich,
I got a baby on the way, I don't even got a car,
you know what I'm saying
I still stay with my moms, 21 and still with my moms
Look hey, we gotta make some hit records or something,
you know what I'm saying Cause I'm tired of being broke

[Verse 1:]
Cause all I do is yearn a life without a concern
And dream of having a turn to earn money to burn
Mapping out my strategies to get rich huh
My desire is like a scratch that needs to get itched huh
Cause man I live in the D, this shit ain't given for free
Nothing's different to me, so what, it's easy to see
I'll be the prisoner to flee, all of this misery
I'm not wishing to be another fish in the sea
But just an MC, so listen to me, but if you disagree
You missing the key, you ain't even in the brisk of the tea
Unconditionally my aspects to cash checks
My objects were never to swab decks
It's up to you the decision is yours
If what you vision is tours, or a mission less course
When shit is in the stores, cause you can be a star

[Chorus:]
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh

You know what I'm saying, see what I'm talking about man
Cause that's it
Yeah
A million dollars ain't even that far away man
Yo we got to get the money man, I can't be broke for the rest of my life
Yeah I hear what your saying,
look there's got to be something better, you know what I'm saying
I can't live like this for the rest of my life man,
bumming rides everywhere I go
Yeah, what's up with Lexus' and Land cruisers'

[Verse 2:]
Yo I'm not about to chance it and dismiss handling business
I'm canceling Christmas to gamble and risk this
Financial interest is the matter at hand
I got an adequate plan for stab at a grand
I grab what I can and do what I must
Pursue what I lust, it's true that I just choose
The few that I trust, thems the people that I still got
Fuck with gangsta fill pot, get your grill shot
The 5 Elemantz for life my man Thyme
Proof, Kyu and Denaun, we move through into time
My crews true and divine, we never fronted
We just wanted to be funded, and live to be a hundred
Instead of hunted or being wanted as fugitives
It's all about a man planning what his future is
What he can do for his to be a star

[Chorus:]
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh

That's what I'm talking about, I'm not trying to be the player,
I'm trying to be the man, I'm want to be President
Yo forgot that President man I'm trying to be king,
making dead presidents, you know what I'm saying
Yeah
Getting money anytime I want owning my own businesses and all that,
you know what I'm saying
Yeah, I'm trying to be a millionare man, hahaha, but don't all you know
You only live once
ninety six baby

(feat. Thyme)

Hey yo, what's up man Hey, yo you been here all day man
Ya'll been here every weekend man,
I don't ever get a chance to rap first man!
That's cause you whack!
What! I ain't whack nigga, I got some raps for all ya'll
Nigga my raps fresh, I'ma bust my raps first,
you can bust yours after me if you want to
No no man, I'm going first,
I'm getting tired of everybody wanted to go first man
You always rap first,
I'm rapping I don't care what none of ya'll say,
I'm fresh, I'm fresh

[Thyme:]
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Point him out man I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
I said who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Point him out bitch I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'll have you taken back to Christ when you sacrifice
The way you acting slice when I tear your back with knifes
Jacking life's of MC's, now I'm set to launch a plan
For blowing up the stage with illegal contraband
A stomped your man so unless you want what he got
You better set the mic down, I'm steaming like a teapot
I'll make the tea hot, people get in my face and ask
If I wanna battle, then I chase them in a Jason mask
It's an amazing task to battle with success
I never gave a fuck, now I give a fuck less
And in a slug fest I get physical like physicians
Invisible like magicians with mystical mic traditions
Wicked wizardry, like a sorcerer and no remorse for you
When I torture you throughout the course of my orchestra
So feel the force of my spiritual images
Slicing up an enemy's appendages till he hemorrhages
My skin itches every time a rapper recites
And when he's through with his verse, I'm all covered in flea bites
You wanna see fights I got a match for you
You couldn't flip shit playing in toilets with a spatula

[Chorus: Thyme]
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Point him out man I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Point him out bitch I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know

[Verse 2: Eminem]
You bitches get a hysterectomy disrespecting me
You wanna feel the full effect of me, hand a tech to me
Intellectually superior, I'll make the whack wearier
Inferior, deterior rate, like bacteria
Materially, killing serially, clearly you'll see
How much in fear when u hear me you'll be
Shiver and shake, quiver and quake
Bite a rhyme and rip it off then stiffer and ache, whither and break
You slithering snake, gibbering fake, fibbering flake
I'll twist you into a different shape
And toss you in Michigan Lake, for fisherman sake
If this is a dream you'd wish you can wake
Every dis you can take, personal
We ain't friends trying to make amends
If you ain't ever stole a gate you can take a fence
I make intense masterpieces and smash to pieces
Your last releases, you bad diseases, that's the reason
I'm showing you the proper way to operate a mic
So pass it like a hot potato
I've never been less than clever and fresh
Severing flesh of fools who never impressed I can confess

[Chorus: Thyme]
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Point him out man I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic man and said that you can flow
Point him out bitch I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and then said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Whhhooo the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Point him out!! I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
(scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Ayo let me get that mic manÅ
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow
Who the fuck passed you the mic, who the fuck passed you the mic!!
I got the rhymes bitch, I'll kick that shit

(feat. Danaun Porter)

[Women Singing:]
Ain't no one special, special like you (4X)
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (4X)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'm reminiscing on your tenderness and the snuggling and teasing
Missing what I remember, kissing and hugging and squeezing
Bugging and weezing, I'm having trouble when breathing
It's even tougher when sleeping
But there's a couple of reasons that I'm suffering and grieving
For loving and leaving, you all I'm thinking of in the evening
You got my knees buckling and weakening
Thoughts of nothing but freaking that I'm struggling to keep in
And interrupt when I'm speaking
I got some game that I'm preparing to run
The way your lips sparkle and glare in the sun
You got your hair in a bun, no matter what you're wearing you stun
Cause your comparing to none, I wanna share in the fun
I feel a passionate lust when I'm imagining just us alone at last with a
touch
I see you grasping to trust, but my intentions are good
The seed is passing in dust
I'm not asking to rush and answer immediately
I just wanna be there for you and you to be there for me
If you agree to repeat after me, I Love You (I love you baby)
Cause I just need you to see, how much I'm eager to be
Your man legally wed, your love's keeping me fed
This is easily said, so you can lead or be led
If you care to be down cause ain't nobody Like you no where to be found

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (4X)

[Verse 2: Denaun Porter]
Baby it's all on you, it's you I call on boo
Let's set a day up so you can fall on through
We'll take a spin in a Lexus you can chill for dinner and breakfast
Long enough to see how this gentleman sex'es
We'll start it out with caviar, Don Parigne
And then when it's a fact we are warm, carry on
We'll take it slow, see nobody will hurry things
I got the herbs the Bacardi and Hurricane
If Daiquiris are in debate and not your thing that day
It's still all right cause I got Minute Maid and Tangeray
Your an incredible one that's rare, in bed with edible underwear
You look impeccable, nothing compares
I dream of freaking you, the women that will speak it too so
It seems that there is not an end to things that we can do so
Now we all set to play, only thing left to say is
When you step away, baby but don't forget the Neglicie

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (8X)
Ain't no one special, special like you (2X)

[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight

[Verse 1:]
I'm getting mad love, I'm snuggling hugs
Druggling thugs, smuggling drugs, juggling jobs, guzzling jugs
So here's a toast to federal checks
Hetero sex, unaffordable medical debts, huh
We travel in packs and ravel in facts and gravel in cracks
To find babbling Max, gaffling tracks
I grapple an axe for them baffling acts
The mysterious stab in the backs who dabble in wax
Still in my yard when I sculpted the culprit
The tall shit that will end up with his skull split
Then I buried the hatchet, I carried on my back
Butterfingers is here and it's necessary to scratch it
Baby all I wanna do is swallow one and two
Smoke a little bit and follow one of you
Back home when the party ends
So tonight I'm dropping naughty hints
To the finest women in the audience

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight (blends in with lyrics)

[Eminem:]
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright

[Verse 2:]
Ayo, biters are like tarantulas, vandealous
Living as scandalous as a television evangelist
But I can handle this, I'm the rhyme biter crime fighter
Caped crusader, taking care of undeserving lime lighters
I think a living never meant for me
Experimentally I found a way to spread interamentally
When I stumbled upon this resolution
By using a special fusion of chemical solution for this resolution
You couldn't see me with binoculars
I armed like an octopus
Step on stage and you get socked and pushed
Talking that junk like you went black, guarded your back
Come battle me and you get smacked as hard as you act
When I rap I represent it and will never referee in it
Every minute so when I win it you never resent it
I'm forever demented, come up with funk, I'll never be scented
You got the point when I cleverly said it

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight (blends in with lyrics)

[Eminem:]
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright

[Verse 3:]
Eminem is heading skyward
For those who thought that I would make you bored and treat you like a piece
of plywood
I've got miracle lyrical capability all in me
With the agility to escape a killer bee colony
So get your cameras and capture how miraculous
I rap for all you Draculas and showed you all how whack you was
I meant it as a dis, cause you don't posses the pizzazz as this
I'm hazardous enough already as it is
Without you adding fuel to the fire
I'm cruel to the liar
Who fails to recognize my reign of hell, rule to the sire
Clinical studies show that I'm cynical
There's no one who's identical to my fresh and authentic flow
I'm sure the party people can agree
That I'm enchanting, with the romantic
Freaking the vocals so frantically
So throw your hands up in the atmosphere
And let them know the only party that was phat was here, just be like

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight (blends in with lyrics)

[Eminem:]
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright

[Announcer]
Welcome back, to the stage of history

[Eminem]
Yo.. Slim Shady!
Yo.. I'll fuckin.. I'll..
I'll puke, eat it, and freak you (eww)
Battle? I'm too weeded to speak to
The only key that I see to defeat you
would be for me to remove these two Adidas and beat you
and force feed you 'em both, and on each feet is a cleat shoe
I'll lift you off your feet so fast with a roundhouse
you'll think I pulled the fuckin ground out from underneath you
(Bitch!) I ain't no fuckin G, I'm a cannibal
I ain't tryin to shoot you,
I'm tryin to chop you into pieces and eat you
Wrap you in rope and plastic, stab you with broken glass
and have you with open gashes strapped to a soakin mattress
Coke and acid, black magic, cloaks and daggers (ahhh!)
Fuck the planet, until it spins on a broken axis
I'm so bananas I'm showin up to your open casket
to fill it full of explosive gasses
and close it back with a lit match in it
while I sit back and just hope it catches
Blow you to fragments
Laugh, roll you and smoke the ashes

Chorus: J-Black (repeat 2X)

I see the light at the end
But every time I take a step, it gets dim
Tell me is this hell we're livin in?
If so, heaven's got to be better
But if we're hellbound, whatever, let's go down

[J-Black]
Am I the worst? Because I, never go to church (never)
I run a red light then sideswipe a hearse
I'ma drink 'til my liver rot, see the doc
Leave the E.R., then hit a bar for a liquor shot, 'til the liver spot
One day we all gon' die
But when I die, I'ma be so high
that I'ma get up and walk, leavin the concrete bare
with the chalk outline still there
I smoke 'til I choke and I sex a lot
I got a cross on my chain but it's just a rock
Now if I pray everynight (night)
Do I still have to hold my trey very tight?
You feel me God? I done did so much shit while on Earth
I smoke, I drink, I curse, and to make matters worse
I bust my gun first, and then I chat with your corpse
Since way back, I was one to never like back-talk
See me at the pearly gates in line, wearin a Nordface
Nickle nine at my waist, God done lost faith
Angels greet me but I don't reply back
Just show me to my quarters, and oh yeah, where's Thai at?

Chorus 1/2

[Announcer]
Maxie was seriously wounded but the soul still burns
Final battle, fight!

[Masta Ace]
Analyze the strength of my game, like Lee Corso
Call me a lost soul, with a vest on my torso
And of course, yo, y'all know I'm no stranger to danger
Like Christ in a manger, feel a whole range of my anger
I breathe down shit so hard you can see sound
And beat down these rap clowns in like three rounds
My pen 'bout as sharp as a dagger, walk with a swagger
Tie your wife to the back of a black Jag and I drag her
Ten blocks, untie the bitch and I still bag her
Give her a smack in the ass and a six pack of lager
My shit go as deep and as dark as a train tunnel
My flows spill like usin the wrong end of a funnel
Everyday I grow more older, and more colder
Fly you to Colorado, roll you over with a Boulder
I know you want to retaliate but you won't dare
Cause you fuckin with some niggaz like this who just don't care

Chorus

[J-Black]
But every time I take a step, it gets dim..
Tell me is this hell we're livin in?
Haha..

[Announcer]
Time's up!
You lose!

[Puff] Bad Boy baby
[Big] Yeah.. yeah..
Junior M.A.F.I.A., yeah..
[Puff] Yeah.. B.I.G. 2000
B.I.G. 2000 Born Again.. c'mon..

[Notorious B.I.G.]
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong

[Notorious B.I.G.]
Relax and take notes, while I take tokes of the marijuana smoke
Throw you in a choke - gun smoke, gun smoke
Biggie Smalls for mayor, the rap slayer
The hooker layer - motherfucker say your prayers
Hail Mary full of grace.. smack the bitch in the face;
Take her Gucci bag and the North Face
Off her back, jab her if she act
Funny with the money oh you got me mistaken honey
I don't wanna rape ya, I just want the paper
The Visa, kapeesha? I'm out like, "The Vapors"
Who's the one you call Mr. Macho, the head honcho
Swift fist like Camacho, I got so
Much style I should be down wit the Stylistics
Make up to break up {*singing in background*} niggaz need to wake up
Smell the indonesia; beat you to a seizure
Then fuck your moms, hit the skins til amnesia
She don't remember shit! Just the two hits!
Her hittin the floor, and me hittin the clits!
Suckin on the tits! Had the hooker beggin for the dick
And your moms ain't ugly love; my dick got rock quick
I guess I was a combination of House of Pain and Bobby Brown
I was "Humpin Around" and "Jump-in Around"
Jacked her then I asked her who's the man; she said, "B-I-G"
Then I bust in her E-Y-E (Yo Big, you're dead wrong)

[Notorious B.I.G.]
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"

[Notorious B.I.G.]
When I get dusted, I like to spread the blood like mustard
Trust it, my hardcore rain leaves you rusted
Move over Lucifer, I'm more ruthless, huh
Leave your toothless, you'll kibbitz, I'll flip it
Tears don't affect me, I hit 'em with the tech G
Disrespect me - my potency is deadly
I'm shootin babies, no ifs ands or maybes
Hit mummy in the tummy if the hooker plays a dummy
Slit the wrist of little sis
After she sucked the dick, I stabbed her brother with the icepick
Because he wanted me to fuck him from the back
But Smalls don't get down like that
Got your father hidin in a room; fucked him with the broom
Slit him down the back and threw salt in the wound
Who you think you're dealin with?
Anybody step into my path is fuckin feelin it!
Hardcore, I got it sucked like a pussy
Stab ya til you're gushy, so please don't push.. me
I'm using rubbers so they won't trace the semen
The black demon, got the little hookers screamin
Because you know I love it young, fresh and green
With no hair in between, know what I mean?

[Notorious B.I.G.]
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"

[Puff] Ladies and gentlemen..

[Eminem]
There's several different levels to Devil worshippin: horse's heads,
Human sacrifices, canibalism; candles and exorcism
Animals havin sex with 'em; camels mammals and rabbits
But I don't get into that, I kick the habit - I just,
Beat you to death with weapons that eat through the flesh
And I never eat you unless the fuckin, meat looks fresh
I got a lion in my pocket, I'm lyin, I got a nine in my pocket
And baby I'm just, dyin to cock him
He's ready for war, I'm ready for war
I got machetes and swords for any faggot that said he was raw
My uz' as, heavy as yours, yeah you met me before
I just didn't have as large an arsenal of weapons before
Marshall will step in the door, I lay your head on the floor
With your body spread on the bedspread, red on the wall
Red on the ceilin, red on the floor, get a new whore
Met on the second, wet on the third;
Then she's dead on the fourth - I'm dead wrong

[Notorious B.I.G.]
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"
"I don't care what nobody say"

[Notorious B.I.G.]
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong
The weak or the strong, who got it goin on
You're dead wrong

[Puff Daddy]
Uh-huh, and we won't stop, because we can't stop

Life.. by Marshall Mathers
What is life
Life is like a big obstacle
put in front of your optical to slow you down
And everytime you think you gotten past it
it's gonna come back around and tackle you to the damn ground
What are friends
Friends are people that you think are your friends
But they really your enemies, with secret indentities
and disguises, to hide they true colors
So just when you think you close enough to be brothers
they wanna come back and cut your throat when you ain't lookin
What is money
Money is what makes a man act funny
Money is the root of all evil
Money'll make them same friends come back around
swearing that they was always down
What is life
I'm tired of life
I'm tired of backstabbing ass snakes with friendly grins
I'm tired of committing so many sins
Tired of always giving in when this bottle of Henny wins
Tired of never having any ends
Tired of having skinny friends hooked on crack and mini-thins
I'm tired of this DJ playing YOUR shit when he spins
Tired of not having a deal
Tired of having to deal with the bullshit without grabbing the steel
Tired of drowning in my sorrow
Tired of having to borrow a dollar for gas to start my Monte Carlo
I'm tired of motherfuckers spraying shit and dartin off
I'm tired of jobs startin off at five fifty an hour
then this boss wanders why I'm smartin off
I'm tired of being fired everytime I fart and cough
Tired of having to work as a gas station clerk
for this jerk breathing down my neck driving me bezerk
I'm tired of using plastic silverware
Tired of working in Building Square
Tired of not being a millionaire

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery, and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand, I'd make the world suck my dick
without a condom on, while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
it wouldn't be enough, because I'd still be out
robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

I'm tired of being white trash, broke and always poor
Tired of taking pop bottles back to the party store
I'm tired of not having a phone
Tired of not having a home to have one in if I did have it on
Tired of not driving a BM
Tired of not working at GM, tired of wanting to be him
Tired of not sleeping without a Tylenol PM
Tired of not performing in a packed coliseum
Tired of not being on tour
Tired of fucking the same blonde whore after work
in the back of a Contour
I'm tired of faking knots with a stack of ones
Having a lack of funds and resorting back to guns
Tired of being stared at
I'm tired of wearing the same damn Nike Air hat
Tired of stepping in clubs wearing the same pair of Lugz
Tired of people saying they're tired of hearing me rap about drugs
Tired of other rappers who ain't bringin half the skill as me
saying they wasn't feeling me on "Nobody's As Ill As Me"
I'm tired of radio stations telling fibs
Tired of J-L-B saying "Where Hip-Hop Lives"

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery, and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand, I'd make the world suck my dick
without a condom on, while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
it wouldn't be enough, because I'd still be out
robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

You know what I'm saying
I'm tired of all of this bullshit
Telling me to be positive
How'm I 'sposed to be positive when I don't see shit positive
Know what I'm sayin
I rap about shit around me, shit I see
Know what I'm sayin Right now I'm tired of everything
Tired of all this player hating that's going on in my own city
Can't get no airplay, you know what I'm sayin
But ey, it's cool though, you know what I'm sayin
Just fed up
That's my word

[Intro: Frogg]

Whoah!
A get your hands in the air, and get to clappin 'em
and like, back and forth because ah
this is.. what you thought it wasn't
It beez.. the brothers representin' the Dirty Dozen
I be the F-R-O the double G *coughing in background*
And check out the man he goes by the name of er...

[Verse One: Eminem]

Slim Shady, brain dead like Jim Brady
I'm a M80, you Lil' like that Kim lady
I'm buzzin, Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer
Cursin at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer
You wacker than the motherfucker you bit your style from
You ain't gonna sell two copies if you press a double album
Admit it, fuck it, while we comin out in the open
I'm doin acid, crack, smack, coke and smokin dope then
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi Marshall)
I have a disease and they don't know what to call it
Better hide your wallet cause I'm comin up quick to strip your cash
Bought a ticket to your concert just to come and whip your ass
Bitch, I'm comin out swingin, so fast it'll make your eyes spin
You gettin knocked the fuck out like Mike Tyson
The +Proof+ is in the puddin, just ask the Deshaun Holton
I'll slit your motherfuckin throat worse than Ron Goldman

[Chorus:]

So when you see me on your block with two glocks
Screamin _Fuck the World_ like Tupac
I just don't give a fuuuuuck!!
Talkin that shit behind my back, dirty mackin
tellin your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuuuuuck!!
So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuuuuuck!!
But see me on the street and duck
Cause you gon' get stuck, stoned, and snuffed
Cause I just don't give a fuuuuuck!!

[Verse Two: Eminem]

I'm Nicer than Pete, but I'm on a Serch to crush a Miilkbone
I'm Everlast-ing, I melt Vanilla Ice like silicone
I'm ill enough to just straight up diss you for no reason
I'm colder than snow season when it's twenty below freezin
Flavor with no seasonin, this is the sneak preview
I'll diss your magazine and still won't get a weak review
I'll make your freak leave you, smell the Folgers crystals
This is a lyrical combat, gentlemen hold your pistols
But I form like Voltron and blast you with my shoulder missiles
Slim Shady, Eminem was the old initials (Bye-bye!)
Extortion, snortin, supportin abortion
Pathological liar, blowin shit out of proportion
The looniest, zaniest, spontaneous, sporadic
Impulsive thinker, compulsive drinker, addict
Half animal, half man
Dumpin your dead body inside of a fuckin trash can
With more holes than an Afghan

[Chorus]

[Verse Three: Eminem]

Somebody let me out this limousine (hey, let me out!)
I'm a caged demon, on stage screamin like Rage Against the Machine
I'm convinced I'm a fiend, shootin up while this record is spinnin
Clinically brain dead, I don't need a second opinion
Fuck droppin the jewel, I'm flippin the sacred treasure
I'll bite your motherfuckin style, just to make it fresher
I can't take the pressure, I'm sick of bitches
Sick of naggin bosses bitchin while I'm washin dishes
In school I never said much, too busy havin a headrush
Doin too much rush had my face flushed like red blush
Then I went to Jim Beam, that's when my face grayed
Went to gym in eighth grade, raped the women's swim team
Don't take me for a joke I'm no comedian
Too many mental problems got me snortin coke and smokin weed again
I'm goin up over the curb, drivin on the median
Finally made it home, but I don't got the key to get in

[Chorus]

[Outro: Eminem]

Hey, fuck that!
Outsidaz..
Pace One..
Young Zee..

ust the two of us.. (8X)

[Eminem]
Baby your da-da loves you (hey)
And I'ma always be here for you (hey) no matter what happens
You're all I got in this world
I would never give you up for nothin
Nobody in this world is ever gonna keep you from me
I love you

C'mon Hai-Hai, we goin to the beach
Grab a couple of toys and let da-da strap you in the car seat
Oh where's mama She's takin a little nap in the trunk
Oh that smell (whew!) da-da musta runned over a skunk
Now I know what you're thinkin - it's kind of late to go swimmin
But you know your mama, she's one of those type of women
that do crazy things, and if she don't get her way, she'll throw a fit
Don't play with da-da's toy knife, honey, let go of it (no!)
And don't look so upset, why you actin bashful
Don't you wanna help da-da build a sand castle (yeah!)
And mama said she wants to show how far she can float
And don't worry about that little boo-boo on her throat
It's just a little scratch - it don't hurt, her was eatin
dinner while you were sweepin and spilled ketchup on her shirt
Mama's messy isn't she We'll let her wash off in the water
and me and you can pway by ourselves, can't we

Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!

See honey.. there's a place called heaven and a place called hell
A place called prison and a place called jail
And da-da's probably on his way to all of em except one
Cause mama's got a new husband and a stepson
And you don't want a brother do ya (Nah)
Maybe when you're old enough to understand a little better
I'll explain it to ya
But for now we'll just say mama was real real bad
She was bein mean to dad and made him real real mad
But I still feel sad that I put her on time-out
Sit back in your chair honey, quit tryin to climb out (WAHH!)
I told you it's okay HaiHai, wanna ba-ba
Take a night-night Nan-a-boo, goo-goo ga-ga
Her make goo-goo ca-ca Da-da change your dia-dee
Clean the baby up so her can take a nighty-nighty
Your dad'll wake her up as soon as we get to the water
Ninety-seven Bonnie and Clyde, me and my daughter

Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!

Wake up sweepy head we're here, before we pway
we're gonna take mama for a wittle walk along the pier
Baby, don't cry honey, don't get the wrong idea
Mama's too sweepy to hear you screamin in her ear (ma-maa!)
That's why you can't get her to wake, but don't worry
Da-da made a nice bed for mommy at the bottom of the lake
Here, you wanna help da-da tie a rope around this rock (yeah!)
We'll tie it to her footsie then we'll roll her off the dock
Ready now, here we go, on the count of free..
One.. two.. free.. WHEEEEEE! (whoooooshhhhh)
There goes mama, spwashin in the wa-ta
No more fightin wit dad, no more restraining order
No more step-da-da, no more new brother
Blow her kisses bye-bye, tell mama you love her (mommy!)
Now we'll go play in the sand, build a castle and junk
But first, just help dad with two more things out the trunk

Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!

Just the two of us.. (4X)

[Eminem]
Just me and you baby
is all we need in this world
Just me and you
Your da-da will always be there for you
Your da-da's always gonna love you
Remember that
If you ever need me I will always be here for you
If you ever need anything, just ASK
Da-da will be right there
Your da-da loves you
I love you baby

Warning, this shit's gon be rated R, restricted
You see this bullet hole in my neck It's self inflicted
Doctor slapped my momma, "Bitch you got a sick kid"
Arrested, molested myself and got convicted
Wearing visors, sunglasses and disguises
Cause my split personality is having an identity crisis
I'm Dr. Hyde and Mr. Jekyll, disrespectful
Hearing voices in my head while these whispers echo
"Murder Murder Redrum"
Brain size of a bread crumb
Which drug will I end up dead from
Inebriated, till my stress is eleviated
"How in the fuck can Eminem and shady be related"
Illiterate, illigitimate shit spitter
Bitch getter, hid in the bush like Margot Kidder
Jumped out (Ahhhh!) killed the bitch and did her
Use to let the babysitter suck my dick when I was little'er
Smoke a blunt while I'm titty fuckin Bette Midler
Sniper, waiting on your roof like the Fiddler
Y'all thought I was gonna rhyme with Riddler
Didn't Ya Bring your bitch I wanna see if this dick gon' fit in her

[Chorus: Eminem + (Redman Sample) - 2X]
[E] I'm low down and I'm shiftee!
"And if you hear a man that sounds like me smack him
and ask him where the fuck did he get his damn raps from.."

I lace tunes, I'm out this world like Space Moons
With a bunch crazed loons dismissin brains like braze wounds
Nothing but idiots and misfits, dipshits
Doing whippits, passed out like Sanford snippits
Where's the weed, I wanna tamper with it
I'ma let your grandpa hit it
Mix it up with cocaine so her can't forget it
Fuck it, maybe I'm a bum
But I was put on this earth to make your baby mama cum
So what I'm on is way beyond the bomb or any alcoholic beverage
Losing all of my leverage
Went up inside the First National Bank broke, and left rich
Walking bio-hazard causing wreckage
Smoked out like Eckridge
Band just making my neck itch
What the fuck Gimme the tech bitch
You just lost your tip, there's a pubic hair in my breakfast
Got shit popping off like bottle cap tips
Get your cap peeled like the dead skin of your mama's chapped lips
Slap hips, support domestic violence
Beat your bitches ass while your kids stare in silence
I'm just joking, is Dirty Dozen's really dust smoking
If all your shit's missing, than probably one of us broke in

[Chorus]

My head's ringing, like it was Spider Sense tingling
Lit it like Green Bay did when they shitted on New England
I'm out the game, put the second string in
This Brandy got my swinging
Bobbing back and forth like a penguin
Delinquent, toking microphones with Broken English
Make your mama be like "Ohh! This is good! Who sing this"
"Slim Shady, his tape is dope, I love it
It's rugged, but he needs to quit talking all that drug shit."
It was predicted by a medic
I'd grow to be an addicted diabetic
Living off liquid Triametic
Pathetic, but I don't think this headache's ever vanishing
Panicing, I think I might have just took too much Anasin
Frozen Manaquin, posted stiffer than a statue
I think I'm dying, God is that you
Somebody help me, before I OD on an LP
Take me to ER ASAP for and IV
Motherfuck JLB, they don't support no hip hop
They say that's where it ends, the closest they gon come is Tupac
It's politics, it's all a fix
Setup by these white blue collared hicks
Just to make a dollar off of black music
With a subliminal ball of tricks
But those can kiss ass and swallow dicks

[Chorus]

[CHORUS]
All I see is murder murder, my mind state - [2Pac]
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate - [Swift]
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!
[2x]

Left the keys in the van, with a gat in each hand
Went up in Eastland and shot a policeman
Fuck a peace plan of citizen bystands
But shit is in my hands, here's your life span
For what your life's worth this money is twice than
Grab a couple grand and live a nice land
See I'm a nice man but money turned me to Satan
I'm thirsty for this green so bad I'm dehydratin'
Hurry up with the cash bitch, I got a ride waitin'
Shot a man twice in the back when he tried escapin'
I want the whole plot, I won't be denied nathan
Maybe I need my head inside straightened
Brain contemplatin', clean out the register
Dip before somebody catches ya
Or gets ya description an' sketches ya
The connection was the prime suspect
But I ain't set to flee the scene of the crime just yet
Cuz I got a daughter to feed
And $200 ain't enough to water the seed
The best thing would be for me to leave Taco Bell an' hit up Chess King
And have the lady at the desk bring
Money from the safe in the back, stepped in wavin' the Mac
Cooperate and we can operate and save an attack
This bitch tried escapin' the jack
Grabbed her by the throat, it's murder she wrote
You barely heard a word as she choked
It wasn't nuttin' for her to be smoked
But I slammed her on her back 'til her vertebrae broke
Just then the pigs bust in yellin' "Freeze!"
But I'm already wanted for sellin' keys
And bunch of other felonies from A to Z like spellin' bees
So before I dropped to the ground and fell on knees
I bust shots, they bust back
Hit the square in the chest, he wasn't wearin' a vest

[CHORUS 2x]

Left the house, pullin' out the drive backin' out
Need a backin' out this lady's Jag started blackin' out
Pulled the Mac-10 out, stuck it in her face
Shut ya yackin' mouth before I blow the brain from out the back ya scalp
Drug her by her hair, smacked her up
Thinkin' fuck it, mug her while you're there, jacked her up
Stole her car, made a profit
Grabbed the tape from out the deck and offed it out the window
Like the girl on Set It Off did
Jetted off kid, stole the whip, now I'm a criminal
Drove in thru somebody's yard, dove into they swimmin' pool
Climbed out and collapsed on the patio
I made it out alive but I'm injured badly though
Parents screamin': "Son, go in and call the police
Tell 'em there's a crazy man disturbing all of the peace!"
Tried to stall him at least long enough to let me leap up
Run in they crib and at least leave with some little cheap stuff
Actin' like they never seen nobody hit a nick before
Smashed the window, grabbed the Nintendo 64
When they sell out in stores the price triples
I ran up the block jumpin' kids on tricycles
And colliding with an 80-year old lady with groceries
There goes the cheese, eggs, milk and Post Toasties
Stood up and started to see stars
Too many siren sounds, it seemed like a thousand police cars
Barely escaped, must-a been some dumb luck
Jumped up and climbed the back of a movin' dump truck
But I think somebody seen me maybe
Plus I lost the damn Nintendo and I must-a dropped the Beanie Baby
Fuck it I give up, I'm surrounded in blue suits
Came out with a white flag hollerin' "TRUCE TRUCE!"
Surrendered my weapon to cops
Wasn't me! It was the gangsta rap and the peppermint Schnopps

[CHORUS 2x ]

[CHORUS scratches to fade out]

(feat. Swift, Bizarre & Fuzz)

[Bizarre]
Yeah...ha ha ha (BANG!), Yeah, Bizarre Kid comin' at you
Eminem and Fuzz, and Mr. Swifty, ha ha

No one's iller than me (wha)
No one, no one is iller than me
No one is iller than me
It's Mr. Swifty from the 313...

[Swift]
I make rappers wanna turn into singers
I keep hoes lickin' they fingers
Bring this competition and face this meanin'
Got your whole crew doing subpeonas
Hell nah you ain't seen a crew genius
Murder whoever's between us, pack your heaters
Keep it close, you can't beat us
While your whole crew treat us like G's, you best believe this
I done made quadrapalegics outta these non-rappin rejects
While the whole world ejects your tape, it ain't no secret
That your shit sounds fake, you can't stop it my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
I'm like Two-Face, I'm painful to rappers then you can tell
From these shells, how I gotta bend 'em like route canals
I erase all trails, somethin' farther from gettin' bail
Makes you wanna kill an emcee yourself, you might as well
Be within a 25 to life sentence, on linkin' trials
Horrified, and keep on frontin', repentin' and lose they bowels
Everything is foul when Swift's around, vacate now
Niggas dumb enough to try to front and escape, how
I'm gonna take this 'gnac and drink it straight wild
Niggas steady fallin' in my face like milk crates, BLAAAOW!

It's Swifty from the 313
Like I said no one is iller than me, unnhh!

[Bizarre]
Me and Eminem and Mike
Drivin' down Van Dyke
Get my dick sucked late at night by a fuckin' transvestite
Still on probation for stranglin' my boy Jason
Should be takin' my medication, it's 9 to 10 I'm facin'
Last week this old man I had to blast
Cuz he tried to help me out when my car was out of gas
Ripped this old lady, hung her neck by a hook
Didn't realize it was my grandmother 'til I checked her pocketbook
Fuckin' with the white boys got me back on crack
Better explain where the hell your TVs and VCRs is at
I done lost 100 pounds, I ain't been eatin' like I should
This wounded dog in the street is sure lookin' good!
Rob this little boy in his fuckin' paper route
Throwin' bottles at day care centers and yell "EVERYBODY GET OUT"!
My girl beat my ass and shot me in the back with a 2-piece
Cuz she found out I was havin' an affair with her 10-year old niece

No one, no one's iller than me
It's Bizarre Kid straight from the 313
No one, no one is iller than me
It's Bizarre Kid straight from the 313

[Eminem]
Nobody better test me, cuz I don't wanna get messy
Especially when I step inside this bitch, dick freshly
New Lugz, give the crew hugs, guzzle two mugs
Before I do drugs that make me throw up like flu bugs
True thugs, rugged unshaven messy scrubs
Whippin' 40-bottles like the fuckin' Pepsi clubs
Down a fifth, crack open a six
I'm on my seventh 8-ball, now I gotta take a piss
I'm hollerin' at these hoes that got boyfriends
Who gives a fuck who they was
I'm always takin' someone else's girl like Cool J does
They probably don't be packin' anyways, do they Fuzz
We walked up, stomped they asses and blew they buzz
Mics get sandblasted
Stab your abdomen with a hand crafted pocketknife and spill your antacid
Sprayed your motherfuckin' crib up when I ran past it
Fuckin' felon, headed to hell in a handbasket
Talkin' shit will get you, your girl and your man blasted
Kidnapped and slapped in a van wrapped in Saran plastic
Get your damn ass kicked, by these fantastic
Furious four motherfuckers
Flashin' in front of your face without the Grand Masters

Slim Shady, ain't nobody iller than me

[Fuzz]
I run shit like an ass with legs
Massive lead to leave your cabbage red
Similar to your ass in a casket dead
Drastic spread of acid heads
Come to abort you like a bastard egg
That trash you said got you standin' on plastic legs
Ask the feds from past the edge
Rockin' the most classic threads
Flashin' bread, roll down the window
Bitch you got some fantastic legs, you can get 'til that ass get red
You can get 'til that ass get red
Bizarre you get him and him, Swift you get him and him
I'll get him and him, leave the other two for my nigga Eminem
Never writer's block, I block writers
My block's tighter, ante up and get your top fighters
Got fired for jumpin' the counter with a mop stick
Some bitch ran up screamin' GET THE COPS QUICK!
And got drop kicked, now she screamin' "Stop it..."
Got clips to stop shit, rock shit and grab this hot shit
Wherever you shop bitch, Fuzz Scooter '97 crop pick
Sick a-ya'll niggaz lookin' at me like I got tits
I shoot a rocket through your optic
You niggaz still don't know the top pick
I got bricks, lose my foot in your ass
And have you shittin' socks bitch!
We rock shit, leave your fuckin' knot split
Grab the green from Al by showin' him hot grits
(No one...)

Ain't nobody iller than me

[Bizzare]
It's the Mr. Fuzzy from the 313
No one, no one is iller than me
It's Eminem and Swift from the 313
No one, no one is iller than me
It's Fuzz and Buzz-arre from the 313

You have now witnessed 4 ill emcees!
From the home of potholes and trash
We'll lyrically blast...


[Eminem]
No matter what people say
I'm gon keep rappin this way
No matter what you may think
I'm gon keep doin my thing

[Eminem]
I'm almost as famous as fat bald men
Decided to write songs to teach Mouseketeers to sing
I stick Britney Spears in a room full of mirrors
So she gets fifty years of bad luck [crash]
Causing terror to Christina Aguilera
When I grab her by the hair and drag her across the Sahara
Beware of this rap terrorist with a therapist
With a hair up his ass like a rabbit crawled in his pants
Gotta have it, I hold Tylenol in his hands
Til it melts in his fuckin palms and dissolves in his glands
[So who is it?] The fool who visit the playground
Wit two biscuits to lay down the school district
Get pistol whipped wit a Mauseburg
Wit a pistol grip and fed pitbulls shit
Sniff glue sticks like I give two shits
If I get too rich, I just get sued

[Redman]
Yo, I leave wit no injure, after I blow four in ya
One handstand on top of yo' ninja
Crash it, [ERRRR] Doc stir the madness
Til y'all outta work like Tony Atlas
Walkin, cans in the laundry basket
America's most with the army after us
Fuck flossin, we take what's yours
A low fifteen like a ace in four
I'm outta work, but Doc laid them off
[Shit, the power's out] The tape is off
Yo, you targeted from arsonists
Papermate pens filled wit arsenic
I got hoes that don't know what Prada is
Doc could shape up, touch your barber miss
Betty you wit a bloody blade
I turn rap camps into Crystal Lake
Fuck bitches face is what I'ma do
Cuz that what Withe boy Tano do

[Eminem]
So how is everybody doin tonight?
Hope you're in the mood to get drunk and scream in a fight
Cuz uh, we gettin down for the fuck of it
So suck my dick if y'all don't wanna bump to this... Off the Wall!!

[Redman]
Yo, so how is everybody feelin tonight?
Hope you're in the mood to get rude and ill in a fight
Cuz uh, we gettin down for the fuck of it
So suck my dick if you don't wanna bump... Off the Wall!!

[Eminem]
No matter what people say
I'm gon keep rappin this way
No matter what you may think
I'm gon keep doin my thing

[Redman]
Yo, you could buy Jaz spittin', hospital, son admit it
Rip your lips off, kiss my ass wit it
Slap bitches, got Marshall Maths [printin]
Weed, X, and the acid tabs did it
I was happenin wit no rerun
Doc rob the neuro when the heat come
My barrel hang out the Camaro
Aimed at the nose of them hoes it's hard to breathe from
Flash the gat, your town, bogardin'
Yo' wallet, your chain the main target
Beef is like cold engine, don't start it
Bust in the air and hit a airplane pilot
We clowned you, rap surround sounds around you
From ten speed and brown shoe
Doc and Eminem, cock the M M
Blood flows with 2Pacalypse and them

[Eminem]
It's like, Funk Doctor meets the punk rocker
Got the drugs stopped inside the lunch box [uhh]
Pop junk like I just got jumped
Popped the trunk and pulled out the shotgun pump
Knock wood, it's all good, thank God for Vodka
Cuz wit my luck, I'll probably get shot by a stalker
Probably got a fanatic waitin upstairs in the attic
Wit a automatic callin me up there
My man Stan wit a gat in his hand
Stakin my house out in a tan tinted Sedan
He pull your mouth out til you can't finish a damn
Ham sandwich, or your can spinach and Spam
Til you gotta sip through a straw, shoplifted a mall
Pictures of me on my mom's living room wall
Hey ma, maybe I'll give you a call
Sike you fuckin bitch, suck a dick and two balls
I'm givin you all my job descrip'
Which is a bitch, bitches the priest offered this
Pop more pills than police officers
Arrive at the scene and pull me off of Kim
Teeth off my dick, hands off my balls
But y'all can kiss my ass, pants off and all
Cuz I'm so goddamn off the wall
I might as well as be a painting smashed on the floor

[Redman]
So how is everybody feelin tonight?
Hope you're in the mood to get rude and ill in a fight
Cuz uh, we gettin down for the fuck of it
So suck my dick if you don't wanna bump to this... Off the Wall!

[Eminem]
So how's everybody doin tonight?
Hope you're in the mood to get drunk and scream in a fight
Cuz uh, we gettin down for the fuck of it
So suck my dick if y'all don't wanna bump to this... Off the Wall!

[Eminem]
No matter what people say
I'm gon keep rappin this way
No matter what you may think
I'm gon keep doin my thing
No matter what people say
I'm gon keep doin my thing
No matter... oh

[Pace Won]
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up (Sing it with me!)
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up

[Az-Izz]
Yo, I'm finally convinced my kindness and innocence
Is a crime in a sense, climbing a fence
Diagonally bent, dying in agony in a magically event
Outz in a fear of family presents
Capped in clak smoke, pack toast in a black coat
To roast motherfuckers, over lactose
Stay skeed off laced weed
I take cheese, and page trees in the Bricks
Rolling box of Tracies

[Pace Won]
Call a go-go dancer
Get up in that ass and wreck shop like colon cancer
Hit it from the back, bitch can't hold her pants up
Once for my cock, twice for my block,
I got it locked like handcuffs
Pacer got a razor, get you and your man cut
Swing a blow you can't duck
Throw up your hands, what?
Nobody on earth could see Pacer
I get your shit then peel off like Speed Racer

[Pace Won]
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up (Sing it with me!)
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up

[Slang Ton]
I hit you bastards raps fast as Janet Jackson's coochie
Your raps is half mastered, mad average, wack bologna
And if you ever wanna get a deal
You should either OD off skill pills
Or steal my reel-to-reel
Most of y'all emcees ain't tight as y'all should be when
I'm tighter than the jeans that show hoochie chicks' coochie prints
Outsidaz, we hot as Hell's flames is
And I'm Slang-iz, my tapes get pumped like twelve gauges

[Eminem]
I'm so weeded (How weeded are you?)
I'm so weeded I can freestyle for sixteen bars (Ha ha ha)
Right off the top, then go back to the top
And then repeat it (Ha)
Write it down on the paper
And still be able to read it (Sorry)
I can't read, but I still write to my pen pals (Uh, uh, dear)
I can't fly, but I still float on cement clouds (Whee!)
I can't see cause my eyes already been gouged out
I been down with the Outz for ten thou-sand years
([Pace Won] So dunn, here?)
Some weird kids with piercings in more than one ear
Lauryn, huh? Hill?
([Pace won] There's more than one? IIIllll)
What? You want me to stop? Here?

[Pace Won]
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up (Sing it with me!)
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up

[Young Zee]
Yea
Your girl could suck my dick chewing Big Red
Till she choke and scrape her wisdom tooth on my dick head
Puff a tray bag, Outz never pay cabs
Bust a A-rab, front on taking us up eighth Ave
Yea, we all of the a volumes
What be the outcome?
We selling twenty million albums
Ay your record, ain't nobody buy that
You fell off, and had to take your five mic
And push a Withe Ac, with a bike rack

[Axe]
It's the A, the X, the E
Why pay for ass, if I can sex for free?
F' with we, what you expect to see
Death's your destiny, when it's my time for rest in peace
Bet they find my pistol next to me
My dick is giving ecstasy
Shit I say, spread like leprosy
I'm on a quest to be, the best emcee
Living recklessly, cock the weaponry
Lay you on your back like Lei Wulong from Tekken 3
Yo follow, never question me

[Pace Won]
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up (Sing it with me!)
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up

[Pace Won]
C'mon yo
Bust your lip, rush ya clique, what?
Crush your chick, touch your trick, what?
Snuff your bitch, crush your whip, what?
Outz in the area tearing things up

Outworld baby

(Eminem - 4X)
I'll shit on you
Da da da da

I'll shit on you
I will shit
I'll shit on you
Girl you know
I'll shit on you
Bitch or man
I'll shit on you
I will shit

(Swift aka Swifty McVeigh)
I remain fatter than gluttony
Tapin bombs to the back of record companies
Blow em up if they ain't want me
The national guard
They scared to hunt me
I love beef
I got you hoes duckin me
A drug thief
Bitch I'll take your marijuana
These slugs with keep yo ass away from my corner
I drown niggas in hundred-degree saunas
You can act a fool if you wanna (bitch)
It's this lyrical piranha
Strapped with a grenade
In the pool with your mama
Attack her by the legs then I pull her to the bottom
Twist nothin up like a condom
Slap it if u muthafuckas got a problem
When I see em
You hoes endin up in a fuckin mausoleum
Or hiden in the trunk of a black gold bm
Pull in the garage while u screamin
Keep the motor on then I'm leavin
I'll shit on you

(Chorus)
I will shit on you I don't care who you are
I'll shit on you
I don't give a fuck about you or your car
Fuck your house
Fuck your jewelry
And Fuck your watch
Fuck your wife
Fuck your kids
Fuck your family
I'll shit on you

(Bizarre aka Peter S. Bizarre)
I'm a alcoholic with the fuckin toilet
Pass the hot dogs
(bizarre aren't you Islamic)
Bitch shut your fuckin mouth
I'ma keep eatin till
Richard Simmons comes to my house with a chain saw to cut me out
I'll fuck your wife
I had sex since I met her
I'm to busy fuckin
Your 12 year old baby-sitter
And all women ain't shit
Only good for cookin,cleanin,and suckin dick and thats it
I was responsible for killin John Candy
I got Jonbenet Ramsey in my 98 camry
I don't give a fuck who you are
I'll shit on anybody
Truly yours the idiotic Bizarre

(Eminem aka Slim Shady)
My adolescent years weren't shit till what I do now
I never grew up I was born grown and grew down
The older I get the dumber the shit I get in
The more ignorant the incident is I fit in
Ignorin the shit how boring it gets
When there's no one to hit
I don't know when to quit throwin a fit
I know I'm a bit flaky but they make me
Its they who raised me and say the can take me
Its they who legs I brake and make achy
Its they who mistake me and make me so angry
"I'll shit on you"
I'll spit on you
Start pissin then do the opposite on you
You weren't listenin I said I'll cop a squat on you and
Start spillin my guts like chicken cordon bleu
And straight shit
Like notorious big did to that bitch
On his skit on his last album
Pull my pants down

(Chorus)

(Kon Artis aka Denine Porter)
Is Richard Pryor still alive
If not I'm sicker than he was prior to him dyin
Born brainless
This steel ain't stainless
Your bloodstains are all over this steel god dang it
Bitch brang it
These niggas that i hang wit
Will hang u up naked by your ankles danglin
My needa stays stranglin
I don't need your help
If u gon give me the pussy
I'll unloosen my belt
I'll punch your daddy not
Your moms kinda cock
Your sister tends court
Your aunt supply her rocks
Buck 50 cross yo neck
Floss yo tek
I'll beat you wit it across yo chest

(Kuniva aka Von)
It's only right I jack your car keys and run
Spent all of my advancements on weed and guns
For fun, when I'm drunk
I'll run a truck through the weed house
Jump out and beat your peeps down worst than Steve Stout
Put you in chokeholds I learned last week
From the police man
Who caught me stealing weed from his jeep
I see hoes bitin
Y'all don't wanna brawl
Thats like D-bo fightin Peablo Bryson
So what you hollering and yelling about
I'll reach in your mouth
And pull your fuckin skeleton out
Niggas get hit wit a two piece
"Bling Bling"
With a poisonous sting
I'm such a violent thing

(Chorus)

(Eminem aka Slim Shady)
Once I get on 2 hits of x
My disk slips and disconnects
Till I walk around this bitch with a twisted neck
But still shit on the first bitch who disrespects
Over reaction is my only reaction
Which only sets off a chain reaction
And puts 5 more zainiac than maniacs in action
A rat pack
In black jackets who pack 10
9 millimeters
5 criminals pullin heaters
And spillin liters of blood like swimmin pools
Shiesty individuals shoot at bitches too
A lotta people say misoginistic which is true
I can't deny it matter of fact I stand by it
So please stand by it before we start up a damn riot
If u don't wanna get stampeded then stand quiet
Boy girl dog woman man child
I'll Shit on you

I will shit on you i don't care who you are
I'll shit on you
I don't give a fuck about you or your car
I'll shit on you
Fuck your house fuck your jewelry and fuck your watch
I'll shit on you
I will fuck you wife if you fuck with me
I'll shit on you

You heard me
(Eminem laughing)
Bitch
I'll shit on you
D-12 will shit on you
I'll shit on you

Your life
Your wife
Your kids
Your car
I'll shit on you
Your house
Your spouse
Your rings
Your things
I'll shit on you
I'll shit on you
I'll shit on you
I'll shit on you

(Uhh, hell yea man, hm, oh fuck yeah
When I'm not at home, beating my shit to death
I'm listening to the Madd Rapper's album
This is Ken Kaniff, and I'm still mad as hell...fuck you)

(Eminem)
I'm crazy with this razor with this razor I'm crazy
With this crazor I'm razy, razor crazed I'm crazy!
(Ok I'm Re-Loaded!!) Go Bring Jay-Z!!!
(Tell them him I'ma ghostwrite for him!!) Over Dre's Beats!!!
Ran in the ladies room naked in a blanket
At the banquet and started to spank it (AHHH!!)
Came in the bank with a tank, fired a blank
At the clerk and handcuffed her ankles to the safe and thanked her
But I didn't take nothing (Thanks!)
Every bullet came from the same gun
Just from different angles, cause I was pickin' strange places to aim from
(Mad Rapper: Man, I bet you 50 bucks you won't jump out the window
Shady)
(Crash) (Ahhhh!!) Pay me

(Madd Rapper)
Psych, no way fucked up in the head
Shot my girl and my sister cause I caught them in bed (Wait, wait, wait)
I'm a crazy mothafucka might shoot me a fed
Or I just might start a fist fight instead
See as far as the dough go
I go loco, see me pumpin gas at your local Sunoco
Stuck off the hydro mixed with cocoa
Jump turnstyles, then run from po po

Life stinks, we dont give a fuck son, we crazy
Tear up the clubs and do drugs, we crazy
Fuck wild ho's and bust slugs, we crazy
Madd rapper is crazy, Slim Shady is (CRAZY!!!)
Life stinks, we dont give a fuck son, we crazy
Tear up the clubs and do drugs, we crazy
Fuck wild ho's and bust slugs, we crazy
Madd rapper is crazy, Slim Shady is (CRAZY!!!)

(Madd Rapper)
Yo yo, i wish I'd been aborted
My pockets got a shortage
Everything I wanna floss I can't afford it
I'm tryin to sell a O', my pops tryin' to snort it
My daughter's babysitter is about to be deported
I'm mad cause I still stand in line for clubs
Mad cause my rottweiler still shits on the rugs (God Dammit Spike!!!)
Feeling kinda crazy now, I just might flip out
Slim Shady gave me shrooms and I might trip out, like...
(Eh.... Oh... Dude... That shit's crazy man... oohhhh..... This is incredible... ohhh....)
Fuck that Slim keep that for yourself
You a crazy Withe dude and u need some help, word

(Eminem)
I got a beautiful wife, kids and a gorgeous home
What would make jump in the tub with a cordless phone?
I'm straight viscious I hit you with plates and dishes
Leave you eight stitches, what I'm gay cause I hate bitches?
Slut dont be nice to me, I've had it with girls
And i'll still be mad at the world, even if it apoligized to me (Sorry!)
You're hearing the last thoughts of a man about to blow his fuckin' brains out
Fall back with a blood stained blouse on top of his spouse
Spread out on a blood stained couch
In front of his kids that he just killed in the same house
I'm sicker than Boy George picturin' Michael Jackson
In little boys' drawers shoppin' at toy stores **whistling**
Shady said it, Shady meant it, I stay demented
I'll throw a stroller at u, with a baby in it
Go ahead pull the plug, think I won't smack you
I just dropped a fuckin' pill mom, dont vacuum!!!

Life stinks, we dont give a fuck son, we crazy
Tear up the clubs and do drugs, we crazy
Fuck wild ho's and bust slugs, we crazy
Madd rapper is crazy, Slim Shady is (CRAZY!!!)
Life stinks, we dont give a fuck son, we crazy
Tear up the clubs and do drugs, we crazy
Fuck wild ho's and bust slugs, we crazy
Madd rapper is crazy, Slim Shady is (CRAZY!!!)

[Mr. Mackey] (Eric Cartman)
And everyone should get along..
Okay children quiet down, quiet down
Children I'd like to introduce our new substitute teacher for the day
His name is Mr. Shady
Children quiet down please
Brian don't throw that (SHUT UP!)
Mr. Shady will be your new substitute
while Mr. Kaniff is out with pneumonia (HE'S GOT AIDS!)
Good luck Mr. Shady

[Eminem]
Hi there little boys and girls (FUCK YOU!)
Today we're gonna to learn how to poison squirrels
But first, I'd like you to meet my friend Bob (Huh)
Say hi Bob! ("Hi Bob") Bob's 30 and still lives with his mom
and he don't got a job, cause Bob sits at home and smokes pot
but his twelve-year old brother looks up to him an awful lot
And Bob likes to hang out at the local waffle spot
and wait in the parkin lot for waitresses off the clock
when it's late and the lot gets dark and fake like he walks his dog
Drag 'em in the woods and go straight to the chopping blocks (AHH!)
And even if they escaped and they got the cops
the ladies would all be so afraid, they would drop the charge
'til one night Mrs. Stacey went off the job
when she felt someone grab her whole face and said not to talk
But Stacey knew it was Bob and said knock it off
But Bob wouldn't knock it off cause he's crazy and off his rocker
Crazier than Slim Shady is off the vodka
You couldn't even take him to Dre's to get Bob a "Dr."
He grabbed Stace' by the legs as chopped it off her
and dropped her off in the lake for the cops to find her
But ever since the day Stacey went off to wander
they never found her, and Bob still hangs at the waffle diner
And that's the story of Bob and his marijuana,
and what it might do to you
So see if the squirrels want any - it's bad for you

[Chorus: Mr. Mackey (Eminem)]

See children, drugs are bahhhd (c'mon)
and if you don't believe me, ask ya dahhhd (ask him man)
and if you don't believe him, ask ya mom (that's right)
She'll tell you how she does 'em all the time (she will)
So kids say no to drugs (that's right)
So you don't act like everyone else does (uh-huh)
Then there's really nothin else to say (sing along)
Drugs are just bad, mmm'kay

[Eminem]
My penis is the size of a peanut, have you seen it
FUCK NO you ain't seen it, it's the size of a peanut (Huh)
Speakin of peanuts, you know what else is bad for squirrels
Ecstasy is the worst drug in the world
If someone ever offers it to you, don't do it
Kids two hits'll probably drain all your spinal fluid
and spinal fluid is final, you won't get it back
So don't get attached, it'll attack every bone in your back
Meet Zach, twenty-one years old
After hangin out with some friends at a frat party, he gets bold
and decides to try five, when he's bribed by five guys
and peer pressure will win every time you try to fight it
Suddenly, he starts to convulse and his pulse goes into hyperdrive
and his eyes roll back in his skull {*blblblblblb*}
His back starts tah - look like the McDonald's Arches
He's on Donald's carpet, layin horizontal barfin {*BLEH*}
And everyone in the apartment starts laughin at him
"Hey Adam, Zach is a jackass, look at him!"
cause they took it too, so they think it's funny
So they're laughing at basically nothing except maybe wasting his money
Meanwhile, Zach's in a coma, the action is over
and his back and his shoulders hunched up like he's practicin yoga
And that's the story of Zach, the ecstasy maniac
So don't even feed that to squirrels class, cause it's bad for you

[Chorus: Mr. Mackey (Eminem)]

See children, drugs are bahhhd (that's right)
and if you don't believe me, ask ya dahhhd (that's right)
and if you don't believe him, ask ya mom (you can)
She'll tell you how she does 'em all the time (she will)
So kids say no to drugs (smoke crack)
So you don't act like everyone else does (that's right)
And there's really nothin else to say (but umm)
Drugs are just bad, mmm'kay

[Eminem]
And last but not least, one of the most humungous
problems among young people today, is fungus
It grows from cow manure, they pick it out, wipe it off,
bag it up, and you put it right in your mouth and chew it
Yum yum! Then you start to see some dumb stuff
And everything slows down when you eat some of 'em..
And sometimes you see things that aren't there (Like what)
Like fat woman in G-strings with orange hair
(Mr. Shady what's a G-string) It's yarn Claire
Women stick 'em up their behinds, go out and wear 'em (Huh)
And if you swallow too much of the magic mushrooms
Whoops, did I say magic mushrooms I meant fungus
Ya tongue gets, all swoll up like a cow's tongue (How come)
cause it comes from a cow's dung (Gross!!)
See drugs are bad, it's a common fact
But your mom and dad, know that's all that I'm good at (Oh!)
But don't be me, cause if you grow up and you go and O.D.
They're gonna come for me and I'ma have to grow a goatee
and get a disguise and hide, cause it'll be my fault
So don't do drugs, and do exactly as I don't,
cause I'm bad for you

[Chorus: Mr. Mackey (Eminem)]

See children, drugs are bahhhd (uh-huh)
and if you don't believe me, ask ya dahhhd (put that down)
and if you don't believe him, ask ya mom (you can ask)
She'll tell you how she does 'em all the time (and she will)
So kids say no to drugs (say no)
So you don't act like everyone else does (like I do)
And there's really nothin else to say (that's right)
Drugs are just bad, mmm'kay

[Mr. Mackey] (Eric Cartman)
Come on children, clap along (SHUT UP!)
Sing along children (Suck my motherfuckin dick!)
Drugs are just bad, drugs are just bad (South Park is gonna sue me!)
So don't do drugs (Suck my motherfuckin penis!)
so there'll be more for me (Hippie! God damnit!)
(Mushrooms killed Kenny! *fart* Ewww, ahhh!)
(So, fucked up, right now..)

Eminem: Aite
Fred Durst: Check! Slim Shady, do the mic. kid

(Eminem)
I don't do black music
I don't do Withe music
I make fight music
For High School kids
I pull side full grips
When I drive like this {screech}
With a slipped disk

From a Limp Bizkit diss
I just missed the gift list for Christmas gifts
So I get pissed and can't pick which wrist to slit
Little rich kids in cribs
Don't attempt this shit
Just step back
While I prep up to pimp this bitch
So I said to the girl, I'm like
"What up girl?"
"Shut up girl!"
And showed her a cut-up squirrel
She screamed bloody murder so loud everybody heard her
Slapped me in the mouth and called me a nutty murderer
I moved on to two blondes
And kissed 'em on a futon
{Ay yo baby!}
{What do you want?!}
I looked at 'em both and I was like
"Look, check this out toots, I'm lookin' for cookie pus"
I need to speak to 'em immediately
They played my video on MTV last week
And just when I was thinkin' I was all that and then some
In comes Fred Durst

(Fred Durst)
Yo Shady let me get some
Who knows what galaxy I came from
One where a bass drum hung from my high chair
Now I'm a nightmare
You stay right there
I got the diva
Hold the flavor of a single
See me and Shady?
I think we got a lock down
Shocked by the sound
I got you cruisin' with your top down
These two blondes
I offered 'em both a drink
And this you would think
Could get the party started
But instead them girls turned their heads
Opened up their mouths
Smelt like somebody farted
So if it's time for me to move on
Shady said the livin' room was a dance floor
So turn me loose
I was cuttin' the rug with this chick
Bumped into this dude who was drunk
And a prick
Ramblin' on about how
He was gonna kill me
Wow!
I spilled a drink on his shirt
But no- He insisted we should go
Before I could drop 'em
Shady had to clock 'em
The music stopped
The party stood in shock
So I looked around
Grabbed the cutest girl and did the smurf

Turn me loose
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
This party's goin' my way
Or no way at all
But don't you
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
This party's goin' my way
Or no way at all

(Eminem)
Turn me loose
You better tell 'em to come re-shingle the roof
Just keep feedin' me free drinks till I puke
And Fred'll ask me to lead sing in his group
I'm sick at the barn
I'm not bein' approached
Cuz Fred's over there stealin' all of my hoes
{Yo Fred save me some}
I walked up to these saimese twins
And asked to have a threesome
Told 'em two heads are better that one
Plus I respect how y'all roll together as one
Got a slap in the teeth and a kick in the groin
Stood up like "Ay wait, where you goin" {bye!}
Oh well
Three strikes and I'm out
I struck out and stood tied to the road {ouch}
I ain't tryin' no more
Fuck it- I'm chillin'
Get a shot of yable {ahhh}
Fell asleep on the ceiling

(Fred Durst)
Who knows what galaxy I came from
One where a bass drum hung from my high chair
Now I'm a nightmare
You stay right there
I got the diva
Hold the flavor of a single
See me and Shady?
I think we got a lock down
Shocked by the sound
I got you cruisin' with your top down
These two blondes
I offered 'em both a drink
And this you would think
Could get the party started
But instead them girls turned their heads
Opened up their mouths
Smelt like somebody farted
So if it's time for me to move on
Shady said the livin' room was a dance floor
So turn me loose
I was cuttin' the rug with this chick
Bumped into this dude who was drunk
And a prick
Ramblin' on about how
He was gonna kill me
Wow!
I spilled a drink on his shirt

Turn me loose
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
This party's goin' my way
Or no way at all
But don't you
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
Turn me loose
This party's goin' my way
Or no way at all

"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray

[Verse One]
I'm rockin shit, packin shit, while stackin shit
If anyone steps up askin shit, I'm blastin shit
You gone phase me, but swingin like Peter Parker
Motherfuck the shop, I'll wreck the Goddamn barber
Forget your dreams about being with fans hugged up
You couldn't be a dope MC if you said his rhymes drugged up
I told you once, but you forget so here's a flashback
"You couldn't be shit, if you came out my asscrack"
Stop frontin kid, you know you ain't paid
And the only mic/Mike you wrecked was that kid you fought in first grade
Ain't nothin lyrical about you but your lies
So cut the shit, cause its startin to draw flies
You're played like my five-year old's newborn toys
Don't know shit about Chicago, but I could still make Illa Noyz
Like Robin Leech I display stylish ways
Thats rough like my face when I haven't shaved in days
Listen up, all these words take heed
When I cock and squeeze, no more MC's breathe (none)
I'm sick of this, here's my final dis
Fuck you dumb niggaz you ain't shit like this

"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray

[Eminem]
My Smith and Wessy got you layin in some alley messy
Got your family lookin for your ass on Sally Jesse
We squash beef in the mo', when you ain't breathin no more
Leavin your skull split like Steven Seagal
Let the cat out, flat out, Detroit's a mad house
So I don't get offended when I hear my city badmouthed
We quick to pull the gat out and set it
And leave you with more shit missin than a Lil' Kim radio edit
Stick up kids be tryin to live paid
You get your grill sprayed with twenty-seven bullets in your ribcage
Get the guage, cock it back, empty your pockets, Jack
Or I'ma send you flyin like a rocketpack
Murder you for a bag of chips and a chocolate snack
Break into your crib still your shit and lock it back
Ten-year old kids be standin on the block with gats
Just for livin nowadays'll get you flocked with bats
Where I'm from...yaknow what'm sayin?, that's some old Detroit shit
y'all wouldn't know about that shit, though. Less you come
to my city, ya know what'm sayin? See where we live,
cause we shine

"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray

[Hush]
MC's put Detroit up in they rap songs
Cause without us there careers wouldn't last long
So like a generation we've been passed on
Now its our time to shine, put your glasses on
Got these A R's and labels with binoculars
Lookin in, jockin us and not jockin yours
Too many groups follow trends, unoriginal
Usin loops that transcend every bitch in you
Don't ever try to say this is a ghost town
One million rappers in this bitch, they need to slow down
Evualute the situation, all the rest are killers
Fly hoes out on Jefferson with the drug dealers
Two years in the joint, nobody's touchin Hush
Try to say you'll put us down, but your under us
Now who the fuck are you? its just coincidental
When your rhyme your even worse than the instrumental
Your just a phone-tapper with no backbone
Talkin shit, I got a clique that only pack chrome
Have your ass gone, nowhere to run, when we hit
Next time you'll think twice of who you fuckin wit

"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Every time I pick up the microphone I drug it (what they know about this?)
"When I bust on the mic, I bust a real hard rhyme" ---> Keith Murray
"Bust it rugged, shine like a gold nugget" (what they know about this?)

[Dre]	Yeah whattup Detroit?
[Snoop]	Nu-uh, nu-uh nuh-no he didn't!
Ahhh! They didn't do it again,
what-what, what-what?
Did you shit on these niggaz two times Dr. Dre?
[Dre]	Oh fo' sho'!
[Snoop]	Uh-uh, naw, ya smell that?
This is special right here
What-what, what-what-what?
Yeah, it's a toast to the boogie baby
Uhh, to the boogie-oogie-oogie
Yeah, y'know! What's crackin Dre?

[Dr. Dre]
Just let me lay back and kick some mo' simplistic pimp shit
on Slim's shit and start riots like Limp Bizkit (Limp Bizkit)
Throw on 'Guilty Conscience' at concerts
and watch mosh pits til motherfuckers knock each other unconcious
(Watch out now!) Some of these crowds that Slim draws
is rowdy as Crenshaw Boulevard when it's packed and fulla cars
Some of these crowds me and Snoop draw +IS+ niggaz from Crenshaw
from Long Beach to South Central
{*LOUD SCREAM*} Whoa, not these niggaz again
These grown-ass ignorant men with hair-triggers again
(Hehe) You and what army could harm me?
D-R-E and Shady, with Doggy from Long Beach
(East-syde!) Came a long way, to makin these songs play
It'll be a wrong move, to stare at me the wrong way
I got a long uz', and I carry it all day
(Blaow!) Sometimes it's like a nightmare, just bein Andre,
but I..

[Snoop Dogg]
somehow, someway - tell 'em, nigga
You know about Dogg-ay (Snoop Dogg)
Now let me cut these niggaz up and show em where da fuck I'm comin from
I get the party crackin from the shit that I be spittin son
Hit-and-run, get it done, get the funds, split and run
Got about fifty gungs, and I love all of 'em the same - bang bang!
Damn baby girl what's your name?
I forgot - what'd you say it was? Damn a nigga buzzed
Hangin in the club, with my nephew Eminem
(Whassup Slim?) Whattup cuz? (Whattup Snoop?)
The Great White American Hope, done hooked up
with the King of the motherfuckin West coast, bay-bayy!

Chorus: Nate Dogg (+Snoop)

And you don't really wanna fuck, with me
Only nigga that I trust, is me
Fuck around and make me bust, this heat
[Snoop] That's, the devil, they always wanna dance

[Xzibit]
I'm the Head Nigga In Charge, I'm watchin you move
You're found dead in your garage, with ten o'clock news coverage
Gotta love it, cause I expose the facade
Your little lungs is too small to hotbox with God
All jokes aside, come bounce with us
Standin over you with a twelve gauge, about to bust
It's like ashes to ashes and dust to dust
I might leave in the bodybag, but never in cuffs
So who do you trust? They just not rugged enough
When things get rough I'm in the club shootin with Puff
Bitch, please - you must have a mental disease
Assume the position and get back down on your knees - c'mon

Chorus 2X

[Eminem - impersonating Snoop]
Awww naww, big Slim Dogg
Eighty pound balls, dick six inch long
Back up, in the, heezy BAY-BAY
He's Sha-day!

[Snoop]	He's so cra-zay!

[Eminem]
Hahaha! Gimme the mic, let me recite, 'til Timothy White
pickets outside the Interscope offices every night
What if he's right? I'm just a criminal, makin a living
off of the world's misery - what in the world gives me the right
to say what I like, and walk around flippin the bird
Livin the urban life, like a white kid from the 'burbs
Dreamin at night of screamin at mom, schemin to leave
Run away from home and grow to be as evil as me
I just want you all to notice me and people to see
that somewhere deep down, there's a decent human being in me
It just can't be found, so the reason you've been seeing this me
is cause this is me now, the recent dude who's being this mean
So when you see me, dressin up like a nerd on TV
or heard the CD usin the fag word so freely
it's just me being me, here want me to tone it down?
{*LOWER pitch*} Suck my fuckin dick, you faggot
You happy now? Look here

[Eminem - impersonating Snoop]
I start some trouble everywhere that I go (that I go)
Ask the bouncers in the club cause they know (cause they know)
I start some shit they throw me out the back do' (the back do')
Come back and shoot the club up with a fo'-fo' (a fo'-fo')

Chorus 2X

[Xzibit]
2001 and forever
Slim Shady, Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, X to the Z, Nate Dogg
C'mon, yeah!!

[Eminem]
A lot of people ask me.. stupid fuckin questions
A lot of people think that.. what I say on records
or what I talk about on a record, that I actually do in real life
or that I believe in it
Or if I say that, I wanna kill somebody, that..
I'm actually gonna do it
or that I believe in it
Well, shit.. if you believe that
then I'll kill you
You know why?
Cuz I'm a

CRIMINAL
CRIMINAL
You god damn right
I'm a CRIMINAL
Yeah, I'm a CRIMINAL

[Eminem]
My words are like a dagger with a jagged edge
That'll stab you in the head
whether you're a fag or lez
Or the homosex, hermaph or a trans-a-vest
Pants or dress - hate fags? The answer's "yes"
Homophobic? Nah, you're just heterophobic
Starin at my jeans, watchin my genitals bulgin (Ooh!)
That's my motherfuckin balls, you'd better let go of em
They belong in my scrotum, you'll never get hold of em
Hey, it's me, Versace
Whoops, somebody shot me!
And I was just checkin the mail
Get it? Checkin the 'male'?
How many records you expectin to sell
after your second LP sends you directly to jail?
C'mon!-- Relax guy, I like gay men
Right, Ken? Give me an amen (AAA-men!)
Please Lord, this boy needs Jesus
Heal this child, help us destroy these demons
Oh, and please send me a brand new car
And a prostitute while my wife's sick in the hospital
Preacher preacher, fifth grade teacher
You can't reach me, my mom can't neither
You can't teach me a goddamn thing cause
I watch TV, and Comcast cable
and you ain't able to stop these thoughts
You can't stop me from toppin these charts
And you can't stop me from droppin each March
with a brand new cd for these fuckin retards
Duhhh, and to think, it's just little ol' me
Mr. "Don't Give A Fuck," still won't leave

Chorus: Eminem (repeat 2X)

I'm a CRIMINAL
Cuz every time I write a rhyme, these people think it's a crime
to tell em what's on my mind - I guess I'm a CRIMINAL
but I don't gotta say a word, I just flip em the bird
and keep goin, I don't take shit from no one

[Eminem]
My mother did drugs - tar, liquor, cigarettes, and speed
The baby came out - disfigured, ligaments indeed
It was a seed who would grow up just as crazy as she
Don't dare make fun of that baby cause that baby was me
I'm a CRIMINAL - an animal caged who turned crazed
But how the fuck you sposed to grow up when you weren't raised?
So as I got older and I got a lot taller
My dick shrunk smaller, but my balls got larger
I drink malt liquor to fuck you up quicker
than you'd wanna fuck me up for sayin the word ...
My morals went thhbbpp when the president got oral
Sex in his Oval Office on top of his desk
Off of his own employee
Now don't ignore me, you won't avoid me
You can't miss me, I'm white, blonde-haired
and my nose is pointy
I'm the bad guy who makes fun of people that die
in plane crashes and laughs
As long as it ain't happened to him
Slim Shady, I'm as crazy as Em
-inem and Kim combined - *kch* the maniac's in
Replacin the doctor cause Dre couldn't make it today
He's a little under the weather, so I'm takin his place
(Mm-mm-mmm!) Oh, that's Dre with an AK to his face
Don't make me kill him too and spray his brains all over the place
I told you Dre, you should've kept that thang put away
I guess that'll teach you not to let me play with it, eh?
I'm a CRIMINAL

[Interlude Skit]
Aight look (uh huh) just go up in that motherfucker
get the motherfuckin money and get the fuck up outta there
[Em] Aight
I'll be right here waitin on you
[Em] Aight
Yo Em
[Em] What?!
Don't kill nobody this time
[Em] Awwright... god damn, fuck...
(whistling) how you doin'?
[Teller] HI, how can I help you?
[Eminem] Yeah I need to make a withdrawl
[Teller] Okay
[Eminem] Put the fuckin money in the bag bitch
and I won't kill you!
[Teller] What? Oh my god, don't kill me
[Eminem] I'm not gonna kill you bitch, quit lookin around...
[Teller] Don't kill me, please don't kill me...
[Eminem] I said I'm not gonna fuckin kill you
Hurry the fuck up! {*BOOM*} Thank you!

[Eminem]
Windows tinted on my ride when I drive in it
So when I rob a bank, run out and just dive in it
So I'll be disguised in it
And if anybody identifies the guy in it
I'll hide for five minutes
Come back, shoot the eyewitness
Fire at the private eye hired to pry in my business
Die, bitches, bastards, brats, pets
This puppy's lucky I didn't blast his ass yet
If I ever gave a fuck, I'd shave my nuts
tuck my dick inbetween my legs and cluck
You motherfuckin chickens ain't brave enough
to say the stuff I say, so this tape is shut
Shit, half the shit I say, I just make it up
To make you mad so kiss my white naked ass
And if it's not a rapper that I make it as
I'ma be a fuckin rapist in a Jason mask

(Chorus 2X)

[Girl] Yeaaah, hahahaha...whooooo, shit!
[Em] (aight)
[Eminem] Guess what I ain't coming in yet...
I'll come in a minute
[Eminem] Ayo...This is my love song...it goes like this

[Eminem]
Back when Mark Walhberg was Marky Mark
This is how we used to make the party start
We used to mix Hen' with Bacardi Dark
And when it, kicks in you can hardly talk
And by the, sixth gin you're gonna probably crawl
And you'll be, sick then and you'll probably barf
And my pre-diction is you're gonna probably fall
Either somewhere in the lobby or the hallway wall
And everything's spinning
You're beginin' to think women
are swimming in pink linen again in the sink
Then in a couple of minutes that bottle of Guiness is finished
You are now allowed to officially slap bitches
You have the right to remain violent and start wilin'
Start a fight with the same guy that was smart eyin' you
Get in your car, start it, and start drivin'
Over the island and cause a 42 car pile-up
[Em's spaceman voice]Earth calling, pilot to co-pilot
Look at the life on this planet, sir, no sign of it
All I can see is a bunch of smoke flyin'
And I'm so high that I might die if I go by it
Let me out of this place
I'm outta place
I'm in outer space
I've just vanished without a trace
I'm going to a pretty place now where the flowers grow
I'll be back in an hour or so

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
'Cause every time I go to try to leave
Something keeps pullin' on my sleeve
I don't wanna, but I gotta stay
These drugs really got ahold of me

'Cause every time I try to tell them "no"
They won't let me ever let them go
I'm a sucka all I gotta say
These drugs really got ahold of me

[Eminem]
In third grade, all I used to do
Was sniff glue through a tube and play rubix cube
17 years later I'm as Rude as Jude
Scheming on the first chick with the hugest boobs
I've got no game
And every face looks the same
They've got no name
So I don't need game to play
I just say whatever I want to whoever I want
Whenever I want, wherever I want, however I want
However, I do show some respect to few
As ecstacy got me standing next to you
Getting sentimental as fuck spillin' guts to you
We just met
But I think I'm in love with you
But you're on it too
So you tell me you love me too
Wake up in the morning like "yo, what the fuck we do"
I gotta go bitch
You know I have stuff to do
'Cause if I get caught cheatin' then I'm stuck with you
But in the long run
These drugs are probably going to catch up sooner or later
But fuck it, I'm on one
So let's enjoy
Let the X destroy your spinal cord
So it's not a straight line no more
'Til we walk around looking like some wind-up dolls
Shit's sticking out of our backs like a dinosaur
Shit, six hits won't even get me high no more
So bye for now
I'm going to try to find some more

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
That's the sound of a bottle when it's hollow
When you swallow it all wollow and drown in your sorrow
And tomorrow you're probably going to want to do it again
What's a little spinal fluid between you and a friend Screw it
And what's a little bit of alcohol poisoning
And what's a little fight
Tomorrow you'll be boys again
It's your life
Live it however you wanna
Marijuana is everywhere
Where was you brought up
It don't matter as long as you get where you're going
'Cause none of the shit is going to mean shit where we're going
They tell you to stop, but you just sit there ignoring
Even though you wake up feeling like shit every morning
But you're young
You've got a lot of drugs to do
Girls to screw
Parties to crash
Sucks to be you
If I could take it all back now, I wouldn't
I would have did more shit that people said that I shouldn't
But I'm all grown up now and upgraded and graduated
Did better drugs and updated
But I've still got a lot of growing up to do
I've still got a whole lot of throwing up to spew
But when it's all said and done I'll be 40
Before I know it with a 40 on the porch telling stories
With a bottle of Jack
Two grandkids in my lap
Babysiting for Haley while Haley's out getting smashed

[Chorus 2x]
[Same as previous, but 2nd time the last line is repeated like this]

Drugs really got ahold of me
They really got ahold of me
'Cause drugs really got ahold of me
They really got ahold of me

[Chorus: Eminem repeat 4X]

That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm Back)
I'm Back (I'm Back) (SLIM SHADY!) I'm Back

[Eminem]
I murder a rhyme one word at a time
You never, heard of a mind as perverted as mine
You better, get rid of that nine, it ain't gonna help
What good's it gonna do against a man that strangles himself
I'm waitin for hell like hell shit I'm anxious as hell
Manson, you're safe in that cell, be thankful it's jail
I used to be my mommy's little angel at twelve
Thirteen I was puttin shells in a gauge on a shelf
I used to, get punked and bullied on my block
'til I cut a kitten's head off and stuck it in this kid's mailbox
{"Mom! MOM!"} I used to give a - fuck, now I could give a fuck less
What do I think of suc-cess It sucks, too much press I'm stressed
Too much stares two breasts, too upset
It's just too much mess, I guess I must just blew up quick (yes)
Grew up quick (no) was raised right
Whatever you say is wrong, whatever I say is right
You think of my name now whenever you say, "Hi"
Became a commodity because I'm W-H-I-
-T-E, cuz MTV was so friendly to me
Can't wait 'til Kim sees me
Now is it worth it Look at my life, how is it perfect
Read my lips bitch, what, my mouth isn't workin
You hear this finger Oh it's upside down
Here, let me turn this motherfucker up right now

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
I take each individual degenerate's head and reach into it
just to see if he's influenced by me if he listens to music
And if he feeds into this shit he's an innocent victim
and becomes a puppet on the string of my tennis shoe
{*vocal scratches*} My name is Slim Shady
I been crazy way before radio didn't play me
The sensational {*vocal scratch "Back is the incredible!"*}
With Ken Kaniff, who just finds the men edible
It's Ken Kaniff on the, internet
Tryin to, lure your kids with him, into bed
It's a, sick world we live in these days
"Slim for Pete's sakes put down Christopher Reeve's legs!"
Geez, you guys are so sensitive
"Slim it's a touchy subject, try and just don't mention it"
Mind with no sense in it, fried to get so frenetic
whose eyes get so squinted, I'm blind from smokin 'em
with my windows tinted, with nine limos rented
Doin lines of coke in 'em, with a bunch of guys hoppin out
all high and indo scented {*inhales, exhales*}
And that's where I get my name from, that's why they call me

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
I take seven (kids) from (Columbine), stand 'em all in line
Add an AK-47, a revolver, a nine
a Mack-11 and it oughta solve the problem of mine
and that's a whole school of bullies shot up all at one time
Cause (I'mmmm) Shady, they call me as crazy
as the world was over this whole Y2K thing
And by the way, N'Sync, why do they sing
Am I the only one who realizes they stink
Should I dye my hair pink and care what y'all think
Lip sync and buy a bigger size of earrings
It's why I tend to block out when I hear things
Cause all these fans screamin is makin my ears ring (AHHHH!!!)
So I just, throw up a middle finger and let it linger
longer than the rumor that I was stickin it to Christina
Cause if I ever stuck it to any singer in showbiz
it'd be Jennifer Lopez, and Puffy you know this!
I'm sorry Puff, but I don't give a fuck if this chick was my own mother
I still fuck her with no rubber and cum inside her
and have a son and a new brother at the same time
and just say that it ain't mine, what's my name

[Chorus]

[Eminem {*vocal scratching*}]
Guess who's b-back, back
Gue-gue-guess who's back (Hi mom!)
{*scratch*} Guess who's back
{*scratch*} Gue {*scratch*} guess who's back
D-12 {*scratch*} Guess who's back
Gue, gue-gue-gue, guess who's back
Dr. Dre {*scratch*} Guess who's back
Back back {*scratch*} back
{*scratch*}
Slim Shady, 2001
I'm blew out from this blunt (*sighs*) fuck


[Eminem]
When I just a little baby boy,
my momma used to tell me these crazy things
She used to tell me my daddy was an evil man,
she used to tell me he hated me
But then I got a little bit older
and I realized, she was the crazy one
But there was nothin I could do or say to try to change it
cause that's just the way she was

They said I can't rap about bein broke no more
They ain't say I can't rap about coke no more
(AHHH!) Slut, you think I won't choke no whore
til the vocal cords don't work in her throat no more?!
(AHHH!) These motherfuckers are thinkin I'm playin
Thinkin I'm sayin the shit cause I'm thinkin it just to be sayin it
(AHHH!) Put your hands down bitch, I ain't gon' shoot you
I'ma pull +YOU+ to this bullet, and put it through you
(AHHH!) Shut up slut, you're causin too much chaos
Just bend over and take it like a slut, okay Ma?
"Oh, now he's raping his own mother, abusing a whore,
snorting coke, and we gave him the Rolling Stone cover?"
You god damn right BITCH, and now it's too late
I'm triple platinum and tragedies happen in two states
I invented violence, you vile venomous volatile bitches
vain Vicadin, vrinnn Vrinnn, VRINNN! {*chainsaw revs up*}
Texas Chainsaw, left his brains all
danglin from his neck, while his head barely hangs on
Blood, guts, guns, cuts
Knives, lives, wives, nuns, sluts

Chorus: Eminem

Bitch I'ma kill you! You don't wanna fuck with me
Girls neither - you ain't nuttin but a slut to me
Bitch I'ma kill you! You ain't got the balls to beef
We ain't gon' never stop beefin I don't squash the beef
You better kill me! I'ma be another rapper dead
for poppin off at the mouth with shit I shouldn'ta said
But when they kill me - I'm bringin the world with me
Bitches too! You ain't nuttin but a girl to me
.. I said you don't, wanna fuck with Shady (cause why?)
Cause Shady, will fuckin kill you (ah-haha)
I said you don't, wanna fuck with Shady (why?)
Cause Shady, will fuckin kill you..

[Eminem]
Bitch I'ma kill you! Like a murder weapon, I'ma conceal you
in a closet with mildew, sheets, pillows and film you
Buck with me, I been through hell, shut the hell up!
I'm tryin to develop these pictures of the Devil to sell 'em
I ain't "acid rap," but I rap on acid
Got a new blow-up doll and just had a strap-on added
WHOOPS! Is that a subliminal hint? NO!
Just criminal intent to sodomize women again
Eminem offend? NO! Eminem insult
And if you ever give in to him, you give him an impulse
to do it again, THEN, if he does it again
you'll probably end up jumpin out of somethin up on the 10th
(Ahhhhhhhh!) Bitch I'ma kill you, I ain't done this ain't the chorus
I ain't even drug you in the woods yet to paint the forest
A bloodstain is orange after you wash it three or four times
in a tub but that's normal ain't it Norman?
Serial killer hidin murder material
in a cereal box on top of your stereo
Here we go again, we're out of our medicine
out of our minds, and we want in yours, let us in

Chorus (first line starts "Or I'ma kill you!")

[Eminem]
Eh-heh, know why I say these things?
Cause lady's screams keep creepin in Shady's dreams
And the way things seem, I shouldn't have to pay these shrinks
this eighty G's a week to say the same things TWEECE!
TWICE? Whatever, I hate these things
Fuck shots! I hope the weed'll outweigh these drinks
Motherfuckers want me to come on their radio shows
just to argue with 'em cause their ratings stink?
FUCK THAT! I'll choke radio announcer to bouncer
from fat bitch to off seventy-thousand pounds of her
from principal to the student body and counselor
from in-school to before school to out of school
I don't even believe in breathin I'm leavin air in your lungs
just to hear you keep screamin for me to seep it
OKAY, I'M READY TO GO PLAY
I GOT THE MACHETE FROM O.J.
I'M READY TO MAKE EVERYONE'S THROATS ACHE
You faggots keep eggin me on
til I have you at knifepoint, then you beg me to stop?
SHUT UP! Give me your hands and feet
I said SHUT UP when I'm talkin to you
YOU HEAR ME? ANSWER ME!

Chorus (first line starts "Or I'ma kill you!"
ninth line starts "Bitch I'ma kill you!")

[Eminem]
Hahaha, I'm just playin ladies
You know I love you

[Eminem]
Aww look at daddy's baby girl
That's daddy baby
Little sleepy head
Yesterday I changed your diaper
Wiped you and powdered you.
How did you get so big
Can't believe it now your two
Baby you're so precious
Daddy's so proud of you
Sit down bitch
If you move again I'll beat the shit out of you

[Eminem]
(Eminem as Kim)
(Okay)
Don't make me wake this baby
She don't need to see what I'm about to do
Quit crying bitch, why do you always make me shout at you
How could you
Just leave me and love him out the blue
Oh, what's a matter Kim
Am I too loud for you
Too bad bitch, your gonna finally hear me out this time
At first, I'm like all right
You wanna throw me out That's fine!
But not for him to take my place, are you out you're mind
This couch, this TV, this whole house is mine!
How could you let him sleep in our bed
Look at Kim
Look at your husband now!
(No!)
I said look at him!
He ain't so hot now is he
Little punk!
(Why are you doing this)
Shut the fuck up!
(You're drunk! You're never going to get away at this!)
You think I give a fuck!
Come on we're going for a ride bitch
(No!)
Sit up front
(Well I can't just leave Haley alone, what if she wakes up)
We'll be right back
Well I will you'll be in the trunk

[1] - So long, bitch you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you

[Repeat 1]

You really fucked me Kim
You really did a number on me
Never knew me cheating on you would come back to haunt me
But we was kids then Kim, I was only 18
That was years ago
I thought we wiped the slate clean
That's fucked up!
(I love you!)
Oh God my brain is racing
(I love you!)
What are you doing
Change the station I hate this song!
Does this look like a big joke
(No!)
There's a four year old boy lyin' dead with a slit throat
In your living room, ha-ha
What you think I'm kiddin' you
You loved him didn't you
(No!)
Bullshit you bitch don't fucking lie to me
What the fuck's this guy's problem on the side of me
Fuck you asshole, yeah bite me
Kim, KIM!
Why don't you like me
You think I'm ugly don't you
(It's not that!)
No you think I'm ugly
(Baby)
Get the fuck away from me, don't touch me
I HATE YOU! I HATE YOU!
I SWEAR TO GOD I HATE YOU
OH MY GOD I LOVE YOU
How the fuck could you do this to me
(Sorry!)
How the fuck could you do this to me

[Repeat 1 (2x)]

Come on get out
(I can't I'm scared)
I said get out bitch!
(Let go of my hair, please don't do this baby)
(Please I love you, look we can just take Haley and leave)
Fuck you, you did this to us
You did it, it's your fault
Oh my God I'm crackin' up
Get a grip Marshall
Hey remember the time we went to Brian's party
And you were like so drunk that you threw up all over Archie
That was funny wasn't it
(Yes!)
That was funny wasn't it
(Yes!)
See it all makes sense, doesn't it
You and your husband have a fight
One of you tries to grab a knife
And during the struggle he accidentally gets his Adam's apple sliced
(No!)
And while this is goin' on
His son just woke up and he just walks in
She panics and he gets his throat cut
(Oh my God!)
So now they both dead and you slash your own throat
So now it's double homicide and suicide with no note
I should have known better when you started to act weird
We could've...HEY! Where you going Get back here!
You can't run from me Kim
It's just us, nobody else!
You're only making this harder on yourself
Ha! Ha! Got'cha!
(Ahh!)
Ha! Go ahead yell!
Here I'll scream with you!
AH SOMEBODY HELP!
Don't you get it bitch, no one can hear you
Now shut the fuck up and get what's comin to you
You were supposed to love me
{*Kim choking*}
NOW BLEED! BITCH BLEED!
BLEED! BITCH BLEED! BLEED!

[Repeat 1 (2x)]

[Eminem]
You know I just don't get it
Last year I was nobody
This year I'm sellin records
Now everybody wants to come around like I owe em somethin
Heh, the fuck you want from me, ten million dollars
Get the fuck out of here

[Chorus One: Eminem]

You see I'm, just Marshall Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
I'm just a regular guy,
I don't know why all the fuss about me (fuss about me)
Nobody ever gave a fuck before,
all they did was doubt me (did was doubt me)
Now everybody wanna run they mouth
and try to take shots at me (take shots at me)

[Eminem]
Yo, you might see me joggin, you might see me walkin
You might see me walkin a dead rottweiler dog
with it's head chopped off in the park with a spiked collar
hollerin at him cause the son of a bitch won't quit barkin
(grrrr, ARF ARF) Or leanin out a window, with a cocked shotgun
Drivin up the block in the car that they shot 'Pac in
Lookin for Big's killers, dressed in ridiculous
blue and red like I don't see what the big deal is
Double barrel twelve gauge bigger than Chris Wallace
Pissed off, cause Biggie and 'Pac just missed all this
Watchin all these cheap imitations get rich off 'em
and get dollars that shoulda been there's like they switched wallets
And amidst all this Crist' poppin and wristwatches
I had to sit back and just watch and just get nauseous
and walk around with an empty bottle of Remi Martin
startin shit like some 26-year-old skinny Cartman ("God damnit!")
I'm anti-Backstreet and Ricky Martin
with instincts to kill N'Sync, don't get me started
These fuckin brats can't sing and Britney's garbage
What's this bitch retarded Gimme back my sixteen dollars
All I see is sissies in magazines smiling
Whatever happened to whylin out and bein violent
Whatever happened to catchin a good-ol' fashioned
passionate ass-whoopin and gettin your shoes coat and your hat tooken
New Kids on the Block, sucked a lot of dick
Boy/girl groups make me sick
And I can't wait 'til I catch all you faggots in public
I'ma love it.. (hahaha)
Vanilla Ice don't like me (uh-uh)
Said some shit in Vibe to spite me (yup)
Then went and dyed his hair just like me (hehe)
A bunch of little kids wanna swear just like me
and run around screamin, "I don't care, just bite me" (nah nah)
I think I was put here to annoy the world
and destroy your little 4-year-old boy or girl
Plus I was put here to put fear in faggots who spray Faygo Root Beer
and call themselves "Clowns" cause they look queer
Faggot2Dope and Silent Gay
Claimin Detroit, when y'all live twenty miles away (fuckin punks)
And I don't wrestle, I'll knock you fuckin faggots the fuck out
Ask 'em about the club they was at when they snuck out
after they ducked out the back when they saw us and bugged out
(AHHH!) Ducked down and got paintballs shot at they truck, blaow!
Look at y'all runnin your mouth again
when you ain't seen a fuckin Mile Road, South of 10
And I don't need help, from D-12, to beat up two females
in make-up, who may try to scratch me with Lee Nails
"Slim Anus," you damn right, Slim Anus
I don't get fucked in mine like you two little flaming faggots!

[Chorus Two: Eminem]

Cause I'm, just Marshall Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
I'm not a wrestler guy,
I'll knock you out if you talk about me (you talk about me)
Come and see me on the streets alone
if you assholes doubt me (assholes doubt me)
And if you wanna run your mouth
then come take your best shot at me (your best shot at me)

[Eminem]
Is it because you love me that y'all expect so much of me
You little groupie bitch, get off me, go fuck Puffy
Now because of this blonde mop that's on top
and this fucked up head that I've got, I've gone pop
The underground just spunned around and did a 360
Now these kids diss me and act like some big sissies
"Oh, he just did some shit with Missy,
so now he thinks he's too big to do some shit with MC Get-Bizzy"
My fuckin bitch mom's suin for ten million
She must want a dollar for every pill I've been stealin
Shit, where the fuck you think I picked up the habit
All I had to do was go in her room and lift up her mattress
Which is it bitch, Mrs. Briggs or Ms. Mathers
It doesn't matter your [attorney Fred Gibson's a] faggot!
Talkin about I fabricated my past
He's just aggravated I won't ejaculate in his ass (Uhh!)
So tell me, what the hell is a fella to do
For every million I make, another relative sues
Family fightin and fussin over who wants to invite me to supper
All the sudden, I got 90 some cousins (Hey it's me!)
A half-brother and sister who never seen me
or even bothered to call me until they saw me on TV
Now everybody's so happy and proud
I'm finally allowed to step foot in my girlfriend's house
Hey-hey! And then to top it off, I walked to the newsstand
to buy this cheap-ass little magazine with a food stamp
Skipped to the last page, flipped right fast
and what do I see A picture of my big white ass
Okay, let me give you motherfuckers some help:
uhh, here - DOUBLE XL, DOUBLE XL
Now your magazine shouldn't have so much trouble to sell
Ahh fuck it, I'll even buy a couple myself

[Chorus One (2X)]

[RBX]
Remember me ("Step in, execution")
Remember me ("I have no remorse")
Remember me ("I'm 'High Powered'")
Remember me ("I drop bombs like Hiroshima")

For this one it's the X, you retarded
Cause I grab the mic and get DOWN, like Syndrome
Hide and roam into the masses, without boundaries
which qualifies me for the term "universal"
Without no rehearsal, I leak words that's controversial
Like I'm not, the one you wanna contest, see
cause I'll hit yo' ass like the train did that bitch
that got "Banned From TV" -- heavyweight hitter
Hit you watch your whole head split up
Loco-is-the-motion, we comin through
Hollow tips is the lead, the .45 threw

[Sticky Fingaz]
Remember me ("Throw ya gunz in the air!")
Remember me ("Slam! Slam!")
Remember me ("Nigga 'Bacdafucup'")
Remember me ("Chka-chka-Onyx!")

Niggaz that take no for an answer, get told no
Yeah I been told no but it was more like, "No, no, no!!!"
Life a bitch that'll fuck you if you let her
Better come better than better to be a competitor
this vet is ahead of,
The shit is all redder, you deader and deader
A medic instead-a the cheddars and credda
Settle vendetta one metal beretta from ghetto to ghetto
Evidence NOPE! Never leave a shred-of
I got the soul of every rapper in me, love me or hate me
My moms got raped by the industry and made me
I'm the illest nigga ever, I told you
I get more pussy than them dyke bitches Total
Want beef, nigga PBBT! You better dead that shit
My name should be "Can't-Believe-That-Nigga-Said-That-Shit"
Probably sayin, "He ain't a killer", but I'm killin myself
Smoke death, fuck bitches raw, on the kitchen floor
So think what I'ma do to you, have done to you
Got niggaz in my hood who'd do that shit for a blunt or two
What you wanna do, cocksuckers We glock busters
'Til the cops cuff us, we'll start ruckus and drop blockbusters
'Round the clock hustlers, you cannot touch us
I'm gettin wires niggaz wantin me dead, wantin my head
You think it could be somethin I said {*echoes*}

[Eminem]
Remember me ("I just don't give a fuck!")
Remember me ("Yeah, fuck you too!")
Remember me ("I'm low down and I'm shifty!")
Remember me ("I'm Shady!")

When I go out, I'ma go out shootin
I don't mean when I die, I mean when I go out to the club, stupid
I'm tryin to clear up my fuckin' image,
so I promised the fuckin critics
I wouldn't say "fuckin" for six minutes
(*click* Six minutes, Slim Shady, you're on)
My baby's mom, bitch made me an angry blonde
So I made me a song, killed her and put Hailie on
I may be wrong, I keep thinkin these crazy thoughts
in my cranium, but I'm stuck with a crazy mom
("Is she really on as much dope as you say she's on")
Came home, and somebody musta broke in the back window
and stole two loaded machine guns and both of my trenchcoats
Sick sick dreams of picnic scenes, two kids, sixteen
with M-16's and ten clips each
And them shits reach through six kids each
And Slim gets blamed in Bill Clint's speech to fix these streets
FUCK THAT! PBBT! Tou faggots can vanish to volcanic ash
and re-appear in hell with a can of gas, AND a match
Aftermath, Dre, grab the gat, show 'em where it's at
(What the fuck you starin at, nigga)

Don't you remember me!
Remember me!!
Remember me!
REMEMBER ME!!!!

(feat. Dido)

[Chorus: Dido]

My tea's gone cold I'm wondering why I..
got out of bed at all
The morning rain clouds up my window..
and I can't see at all
And even if I could it'll all be gray,
but your picture on my wall
It reminds me, that it's not so bad,
it's not so bad..

[1st Chorus: volume gradually grows over raindrop background]
[2nd Chorus: full volume with beat right after "thunder" noise]

[Eminem as 'Stan']
Dear Slim, I wrote but you still ain't callin
I left my cell, my pager, and my home phone at the bottom
I sent two letters back in autumn, you must not-a got 'em
There probably was a problem at the post office or somethin
Sometimes I scribble addresses too sloppy when I jot 'em
but anyways; fuck it, what's been up Man how's your daughter
My girlfriend's pregnant too, I'm bout to be a father
If I have a daughter, guess what I'ma call her
I'ma name her Bonnie
I read about your Uncle Ronnie too I'm sorry
I had a friend kill himself over some bitch who didn't want him
I know you probably hear this everyday, but I'm your biggest fan
I even got the underground shit that you did with Skam
I got a room full of your posters and your pictures man
I like the shit you did with Rawkus too, that shit was fat
Anyways, I hope you get this man, hit me back,
just to chat, truly yours, your biggest fan
This is Stan

[Chorus: Dido]

[Eminem as 'Stan']
Dear Slim, you still ain't called or wrote, I hope you have a chance
I ain't mad - I just think it's FUCKED UP you don't answer fans
If you didn't wanna talk to me outside your concert
you didn't have to, but you coulda signed an autograph for Matthew
That's my little brother man, he's only six years old
We waited in the blistering cold for you,
four hours and you just said, "No."
That's pretty shitty man - you're like his fuckin idol
He wants to be just like you man, he likes you more than I do
I ain't that mad though, I just don't like bein lied to
Remember when we met in Denver - you said if I'd write you
you would write back - see I'm just like you in a way
I never knew my father neither;
he used to always cheat on my mom and beat her
I can relate to what you're saying in your songs
so when I have a shitty day, I drift away and put 'em on
cause I don't really got shit else so that shit helps when I'm depressed
I even got a tattoo of your name across the chest
Sometimes I even cut myself to see how much it bleeds
It's like adrenaline, the pain is such a sudden rush for me
See everything you say is real, and I respect you cause you tell it
My girlfriend's jealous cause I talk about you 24/7
But she don't know you like I know you Slim, no one does
She don't know what it was like for people like us growin up
You gotta call me man, I'll be the biggest fan you'll ever lose
Sincerely yours, Stan -- P.S.
We should be together too

[Chorus: Dido]

[Eminem as 'Stan']
Dear Mister-I'm-Too-Good-To-Call-Or-Write-My-Fans,
this'll be the last package I ever send your ass
It's been six months and still no word - I don't deserve it
I know you got my last two letters;
I wrote the addresses on 'em perfect
So this is my cassette I'm sending you, I hope you hear it
I'm in the car right now, I'm doing 90 on the freeway
Hey Slim, I drank a fifth of vodka, you dare me to drive
You know the song by Phil Collins, "In the Air of the Night"
about that guy who coulda saved that other guy from drowning
but didn't, then Phil saw it all, then at a a show he found him
That's kinda how this is, you coulda rescued me from drowning
Now it's too late - I'm on a 1000 downers now, I'm drowsy
and all I wanted was a lousy letter or a call
I hope you know I ripped +ALL+ of your pictures off the wall
I love you Slim, we coulda been together, think about it
You ruined it now, I hope you can't sleep and you dream about it
And when you dream I hope you can't sleep and you SCREAM about it
I hope your conscience EATS AT YOU and you can't BREATHE without me
See Slim; [*screaming*] Shut up bitch! I'm tryin to talk!
Hey Slim, that's my girlfriend screamin in the trunk
but I didn't slit her throat, I just tied her up, see I ain't like you
cause if she suffocates she'll suffer more, and then she'll die too
Well, gotta go, I'm almost at the bridge now
Oh shit, I forgot, how'm I supposed to send this shit out
[*car tires squeal*] [*CRASH*]
.. [*brief silence*] .. [*LOUD splash*]

[Chorus: Dido]

[Eminem]
Dear Stan, I meant to write you sooner but I just been busy
You said your girlfriend's pregnant now, how far along is she
Look, I'm really flattered you would call your daughter that
and here's an autograph for your brother,
I wrote it on the Starter cap
I'm sorry I didn't see you at the show, I musta missed you
Don't think I did that shit intentionally just to diss you
But what's this shit you said about you like to cut your wrists too
I say that shit just clownin dogg,
c'mon - how fucked up is you
You got some issues Stan, I think you need some counseling
to help your ass from bouncing off the walls when you get down some
And what's this shit about us meant to be together
That type of shit'll make me not want us to meet each other
I really think you and your girlfriend need each other
or maybe you just need to treat her better
I hope you get to read this letter, I just hope it reaches you in time
before you hurt yourself, I think that you'll be doin just fine
if you relax a little, I'm glad I inspire you but Stan
why are you so mad Try to understand, that I do want you as a fan
I just don't want you to do some crazy shit
I seen this one shit on the news a couple weeks ago that made me sick
Some dude was drunk and drove his car over a bridge
and had his girlfriend in the trunk, and she was pregnant with his kid
and in the car they found a tape, but they didn't say who it was to
Come to think about, his name was.. it was you
Damn!

[Eminem]
Whatever..
Dre, just let it run
Aiyyo turn the beat up a little bit
Aiyyo.. this song is for anyone.. fuck it
Just shut up and listen, aiyyo..

I sit back with this pack of Zig Zags and this bag
of this weed it gives me the shit needed to be
the most meanest MC on this -- on this Earth
And since birth I've been cursed with this curse to just curse
And just blurt this berserk and bizarre shit that works
And it sells and it helps in itself to relieve
all this tension dispensin these sentences
Gettin this stress that's been eatin me recently off of this chest
and I rest again peacefully (peacefully)..
but at least have the decency in you
to leave me alone, when you freaks see me out
in the streets when I'm eatin or feedin my daughter
to not come and speak to me (speak to me)..
I don't know you and no,
I don't owe you a mo-therfuck-in thing
I'm not Mr. N'Sync, I'm not what your friends think
I'm not Mr. Friendly, I can be a prick
if you tempt me my tank is on empty (is on empty)..
No patience is in me and if you offend me
I'm liftin you 10 feet (liftin you 10 feet).. in the air
I don't care who is there and who saw me destroy you
Go call you a lawyer, file you a lawsuit
I'll smile in the courtroom and buy you a wardrobe
I'm tired of all you (of all you)..
I don't mean to be mean but that's all I can be is just me

[Chorus: Eminem]

And I am, whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am
In the paper, the news everyday I am
Radio won't even play my jam
Cause I am, whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am
In the paper, the news everyday I am
I don't know it's just the way I am

[Eminem]
Sometimes I just feel like my father, I hate to be bothered
with all of this nonsense it's constant
And, "Oh, it's his lyrical content -
- the song 'Guilty Conscience' has gotten such rotten responses"
And all of this controversy circles me
and it seems like the media immediately
points a finger at me (finger at me)..
So I point one back at 'em, but not the index or pinkie
or the ring or the thumb, it's the one you put up
when you don't give a fuck, when you won't just put up
with the bullshit they pull, cause they full of shit too
When a dude's gettin bullied and shoots up his school
and they blame it on Marilyn (on Marilyn).. and the heroin
Where were the parents at And look where it's at
Middle America, now it's a tragedy
Now it's so sad to see, an upper class ci-ty
havin this happenin (this happenin)..
then attack Eminem cause I rap this way (rap this way)..
But I'm glad cause they feed me the fuel that I need for the fire
to burn and it's burnin and I have returned

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
I'm so sick and tired of bein admired
that I wish that I would just die or get fired
and dropped from my label and stop with the fables
I'm not gonna be able to top on "My Name is.."
And pigeon-holed into some pop-py sensation
to cop me rotation at rock'n'roll stations
And I just do not got the patience (got the patience)..
to deal with these cocky caucasians who think
I'm some wigger who just tries to be black cause I talk
with an accent, and grab on my balls, so they always keep askin
the same fuckin questions (fuckin questions)..
What school did I go to, what hood I grew up in
The why, the who what when, the where, and the how
'til I'm grabbin my hair and I'm tearin it out
cause they drivin me crazy (drivin me crazy).. I can't take it
I'm racin, I'm pacin, I stand and I sit
And I'm thankful for ev-ery fan that I get
But I can't take a SHIT, in the bathroom
without someone standin by it
No I won't sign your autograph
You can call me an asshole I'm glad

[Chorus (except change first word "And" to "Cause")]

[Eminem]
Translation
So you can suck my dick if you don't like, my shit
Cause I was high when I wrote this so suck, my dick - ha ha!
Two pills I pop, 'til my pupils swell up like two pennies
I'm Clint Eastwood in his mid-twenties
A young ass man with a trash can strapped to the back of his ass
so the rats can't chew through his last pants
I'm like a mummy at night, fightin with bright lightning
Frightened with five little white Vicadin pills bitin him
I'm like a fuckin wasp in the hospital lost
Stingin the fuck outta everything I come across in the halls
I light a candle and place it up on the mantle
Grab a knife at the blade and stab you with the fuckin handle
So when you find yourself wrapped up in the blinds, hurtin
[Swifty] Bitch it's too late
[Eminem] Cause once you're hung from the drapes, it's curtains

[Swifty]
I'm an instigator, .380 slug penetrator
Degradin, creatin murders to kill haters
Accused for every crime known through the equator
They knew I did it (uh-huh) for havin blood on my 'gators
My weed'll hit yo' chest like a double barrel gauge an'
I'm a black grenade that'll blow up in yo' face {*BLAM*}
With a fifth in me, when I guzzle Remi I do shit on purpose
You never hear me say, "Forgive me"
I'm snatchin every penny - it gotta be that way nigga, face it
That weed I sold to you, Brigade laced it
You hidin, I make the president get a facelift
Niggaz just afraid, handin me they bracelets
Chillin in the lab wasted
I'm the type that'll drink Kahlua and gin - throw up on the mic
Your life is ruined, you get socked right on site
And even at the Million Man March, we gon' fight

Chorus: Eminem

So you can suck my dick if you don't like, my shit
Cause I was high when I wrote this so suck, my dick
Cause I don't give a fuck if you don't like, my shit
Cause I was high when I wrote this so suck, my dick

[Bizarre]
I'm a compulsive liar, settin my preacher on fire
Slashin your tires, flyin down Fenkel and Meyers
Plates expired, soon as I'm hired, I'm fired
Jackin my dick off in a bed of barbed wire
(Hey, is Bizarre performing?) Bitch didn't you read the flyer?
Special invited guest will be, Richard Pryor
(Aren't you a male dancer?) Nah bitch, I'm retired
Fuckin your bitch in the ass with a tire iron
I'm ripped, I'm on an acid trip
My DJ's in a coma for lettin the record skip.. {*needle pops*}
Lettin the record skip.. {*needle pops*}
Lettin the record skip.. {*needle pops*} (Damn!)
{*DJ reverses the record and scratches it back on beat*}
I'm fuckin anything when I'm snortin
It's gonna cost 300 dollars to get my pit bull an abortion
{*dog whines*} Some bitch asked for my autograph
I called her a whore, spit beer in her face and laughed
I drop bombs like I was in Vietnam
All bitches is hoes, even my stinkin ass mom

[Kuniva]
Aiyyo flashback, two feets, two deep up in that ass crack
Weed laced with somethin {*gun cocks*} nigga pass that
In Amsterdam we only hang out with hash rats
At a 'Stop the Violence' rally, I blast gats
Be your mom on publishin, get your ASCAP-ped
The Kuniva, divide up your cash stack
Want your motherfuckin pockets, ASAP
I don't need a platinum chain, bitch I snatch Shaq's
Born loser, half theif and half black
Bring your boys and your guns and get laughed at
Bitch smacker, rich rappers get their Jag jacked
and found chopped up in a trash bag

[Proof]
We stranglin rappers until the point they can't yell
cause they crew is full of fags and sweeter than bake sales
Reckless, come from behind and snatch your necklace
Gruesome, and causin more violence than nine hoodlums
I grapple your adam's apple until it crackle
Run right past you, turn around, grab you and stab you
Get executed, cuz I'm a "Luni"
I got a "Yukmouth" and it's polluted
I cock it back then shoot it
I love snatchin up players thugs and young ballers
Shoot up the household, even the young toddlers
Brigade barricade to bring the noise
While the bullets break your bones up like Christmas toys
If I go solo, I'm doin a song with Bolo
A big Chinese nigga, screamin "Kuniva yo yo.."
I leave ya face leakin, run up in church
and smack the preacher while he's preachin
Take a swing at the deacon

[Kon Artis]
I used to tell cats I sold weed and weight
I was straight 'til I got caught sellin em shake
I'm ignorant, with the intent to snatch your rent
I got kicked out of summer camp for havin sex in my tent
with the superintendent's daughter, my brain's out of order
I've been a Kon Artis since I was swimmin in water
In cahoots with this nigga named Fall Out Von
Who got fired from UPS for tryin' to send you a bomb
(Special delivery!) I signed to a local label for fun
Say I got cancer, get dropped, take the advancement and run
Driveby you in the rain while you carry your son
Call your house and hang up on you for not givin me none
Born straight up out a pussy but a son of a gun
Got a reputation for havin niggaz runnin they funds
Used to be the type of nigga that was foldin some one's
'til I met your fat mama, now I'm rollin in dough

Chorus

[Eminem]
Haha.. suck my motherfuckin dick
D-12.. Dirty motherfuckin Dozen
Nasty like a stank slut bitch with thirty fuckin husbands
Bizarre kid
Swifty McVeigh
The Kon Artis
The Kuniva
Dirty Harry
Haha, and Slim Shady..

I never knew I..
I never knew I..
Mic check one-two
I never knew I..
Who woulda knew?
I never knew I..
Who'da known?
I never knew I..
Fuck what a story
I never knew I..
Motherfucker comes out
I never knew I..
and sells a couple of million records
I never knew I..
And these motherfuckers hit the ceiling
I never knew I..

[Eminem]
I don't do black music, I don't do white music
I make fight music, for high school kids
I put lives at risk when I drive like this {*tires screech*}
I put wives at risk with a knife like this (AHHH!!)
Shit, you probably think I'm in your tape deck now
I'm in the back seat of your truck, with duct tape stretched out
Ducked the fuck way down, waitin to straight jump out
put it over your mouth, and grab you by the face, what now?
Oh - you want me to watch my mouth, how?
Take my fuckin eyeballs out, and turn em around?
Look - I'll burn your fuckin house down, circle around
and hit the hydrant, so you can't put your burning furniture out
(Oh my God! Oh my God!) I'm sorry, there must be a mix-up
You want me to fix up lyrics while the President gets his dick sucked?
{*ewwww*} Fuck that, take drugs, rape sluts
Make fun of gay clubs, men who wear make-up
Get aware, wake up, get a sense of humor
Quit tryin to censor music, this is for your kid's amusement
(The kids!) But don't blame me when lil' Eric jumps off of the terrace
You shoulda been watchin him - apparently you ain't parents

Chorus: Eminem

Cause I never knew I, knew I would get this big
I never knew I, knew I'd effect this kid
I never knew I'd, get him to slit his wrist
I never knew I'd, get him to hit this bitch
I never knew I, knew I would get this big
I never knew I, knew I'd effect this kid
I never knew I'd, get him to slit his wrist
I never knew I'd, get him to hit this bitch

[Eminem]
So who's bringin the guns in this country? (Hmm?)
I couldn't sneak a plastic pellet gun through customs over in London
And last week, I seen a Schwarzaneggar movie
where he's shootin all sorts of these motherfuckers with a uzi
I sees three little kids, up in the front row,
screamin "Go," with their 17-year-old Uncle
I'm like, "Guidance - ain't they got the same moms and dads
who got mad when I asked if they liked violence?"
And told me that my tape taught 'em to swear
What about the make-up you allow your 12-year-old daughter to wear?
(Hmm?) So tell me that your son doesn't know any cuss words
when his bus driver's screamin at him, fuckin him up worse
("Go sit the fuck down, you little fuckin prick!")
And fuck was the first word I ever learned
up in the third grade, flippin the gym teacher the bird (Look!)
So read up, about how I used to get beat up
peed on, be on free lunch, and change school every 3 months
My life's like kinda what my wife's like (what?)
Fucked up after I beat her fuckin ass every night, Ike
So how much easier would life be
if 19 million motherfuckers grew to be just like me?

Chorus

[Eminem]
I never knew I.. knew I'd..
have a new house or a new car
A couple years ago I was more poorer than you are
I don't got that bad of a mouth, do I?
Fuck shit ass bitch cunt, shooby-de-doo-wop (what?)
Skibbedy-be-bop, a-Christopher Reeves
Sonny Bono, skis horses and hittin some trees (HEY!)
How many retards'll listen to me
and run up in the school shootin when they're pissed at a
teach-er, her, him, is it you is it them?
"Wasn't me, Slim Shady said to do it again!"
Damn! How much damage can you do with a pen?
Man I'm just as fucked up as you woulda been
if you woulda been, in my shoes, who woulda thought
Slim Shady would be somethin that you woulda bought
that woulda made you get a gun and shoot at a cop
I just said it - I ain't know if you'd do it or not

Chorus

[Eminem]
How the fuck was I supposed to know?

Just the two of us.. (8X)

[Eminem]
Baby your da-da loves you (hey)
And I'ma always be here for you (hey) no matter what happens
You're all I got in this world
I would never give you up for nothin
Nobody in this world is ever gonna keep you from me
I love you

C'mon Hai-Hai, we goin to the beach
Grab a couple of toys and let da-da strap you in the car seat
Oh where's mama? She's takin a little nap in the trunk
Oh that smell (whew!) da-da musta runned over a skunk
Now I know what you're thinkin - it's kind of late to go swimmin
But you know your mama, she's one of those type of women
that do crazy things, and if she don't get her way, she'll throw a fit
Don't play with da-da's toy knife, honey, let go of it (no!)
And don't look so upset, why you actin bashful?
Don't you wanna help da-da build a sand castle? (yeah!)
And mama said she wants to show how far she can float
And don't worry about that little boo-boo on her throat
It's just a little scratch - it don't hurt, her was eatin
dinner while you were sweepin and spilled ketchup on her shirt
Mama's messy isn't she? We'll let her wash off in the water
and me and you can pway by ourselves, can't we?

Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!

See honey.. there's a place called heaven and a place called hell
A place called prison and a place called jail
And da-da's probably on his way to all of em except one
Cause mama's got a new husband and a stepson
And you don't want a brother do ya? (Nah)
Maybe when you're old enough to understand a little better
I'll explain it to ya
But for now we'll just say mama was real real bad
She was bein mean to dad and made him real real mad
But I still feel sad that I put her on time-out
Sit back in your chair honey, quit tryin to climb out (WAHH!)
I told you it's okay HaiHai, wanna ba-ba?
Take a night-night? Nan-a-boo, goo-goo ga-ga?
Her make goo-goo ca-ca? Da-da change your dia-dee
Clean the baby up so her can take a nighty-nighty
Your dad'll wake her up as soon as we get to the water
Ninety-seven Bonnie and Clyde, me and my daughter

Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!

Wake up sweepy head we're here, before we pway
we're gonna take mama for a wittle walk along the pier
Baby, don't cry honey, don't get the wrong idea
Mama's too sweepy to hear you screamin in her ear (ma-maa!)
That's why you can't get her to wake, but don't worry
Da-da made a nice bed for mommy at the bottom of the lake
Here, you wanna help da-da tie a rope around this rock? (yeah!)
We'll tie it to her footsie then we'll roll her off the dock
Ready now, here we go, on the count of free..
One.. two.. free.. WHEEEEEE! (whoooooshhhhh)
There goes mama, spwashin in the wa-ta
No more fightin wit dad, no more restraining order
No more step-da-da, no more new brother
Blow her kisses bye-bye, tell mama you love her (mommy!)
Now we'll go play in the sand, build a castle and junk
But first, just help dad with two more things out the trunk

Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
And when we ride!
Just the two of us.. (2X)
Just you and I!

Just the two of us.. (4X)

[Eminem]
Just me and you baby
is all we need in this world
Just me and you
Your da-da will always be there for you
Your da-da's always gonna love you
Remember that
If you ever need me I will always be here for you
If you ever need anything, just ASK
Da-da will be right there
Your da-da loves you
I love you baby

[Eminem]
Hi!
Original Bad Boy on the case, cover your face
Came in the place blowed, and sprayed Puffy with Mase
I laced the weed with insect repellant, better check the smelly
Eminem starts with E, better check the spelling
with a capital, somebody grab me a Snapple
I got an aspirin capsule trapped in my adam's apple (hurry up!)
Somebody dropped me on my head, and I was sure
that my mother did it, but the bitch won't admit it was her
I slit her stomach open with a scalpel when she was six months
and said, "I'm ready now bitch - ain't you feelin these kicks cunt?"
The world ain't ready for me yet, I can tell
I'll probably have a cell next to the furnace in hell
I'm sicker than sperm cells with syphillis germs
and I'm hotter than my dick is, when I piss and it burns
I kick you in the tummy until you sick to your stomach
and vomit so much blood that your clothes stick to you from it (yuck!)
(Yuck!) Hit you in the head with a brick til you plummet
If y'all don't like me, you can suck my dick til you numb it
And all that gibberish you was spittin, you need to kill it
Cause your style is like dyin in my sleep, I don't feel it

Chorus: Eminem

Cause any man who would jump in front of a minivan
for twenty grand and a bottle of pain pills and a minithin
is fuckin crazy -- you hear me? Ha?
Is fuckin crazy -- hello, hi!
Cause any man who would jump in front of a minivan
for twenty grand and a bottle of pain pills and a minithin
is fuckin crazy -- do you hear me?
Is fuckin crazy

[Eminem]
I'm ice grillin you, starin you down with a gremlin grin
I'm Eminem, you're a fag in a women's gym
I'm Slim, the Shady is really a fake alias
to save me with in case I get chased by space aliens
A brainiac, with a cranium packed, full of more uranium
than a maniac Saudi Arabian
A highly combustible head, spazmatic
strapped to a Kraftmatic adjustable bed
Laid up in the hospital in critical condition
I flatlined; jumped up and ran from the mortician
High speed, IV full of thai weed
Lookin Chinese, with my knees stuck together like siamese
twins, joined at the groin like lesbians
Uhh, pins and needles, hypodermic needles and pins
I hope God forgives me for my sins -- it probably all depends
on if I keep on killin my girlfriends

Chorus: Eminem

Cause any man who would jump in front of a minivan
for twenty grand and a bottle of pain pills and a minithin
is fuckin crazy -- you hear me? Ha?
Is fuckin crazy -- listen!!
Cause any man who would jump in front of a minivan
for twenty grand and a bottle of pain pills and a minithin
is fuckin crazy -- you hear me?
Is fuckin crazy

[Eminem]
Last night I O.D.'d on rush, mushrooms and dust
and got rushed to the hospital to get my system flushed
(Shucks!) I'm an alcoholic and that's all I can say
I call in to work, cause all I do is frolic and play
I swallow grenades, and take about a bottle a day
of Tylenol 3, and talk about how violent I'll be (RRARRRRH)
Give me eleven Excederin my head'll spin
Medicine'll get me revvin like a 747 jet engine
Scratched my balls til I shredded skin
"Doctor, check this rash, look how red it's been"
"It's probably AIDS!" Forget it then
I strike a still pose and hit you with some ill flows
that don't even make sense, like dykes usin dildos
So reach in your billfolds, for ten ducats
and pick up this Slim Shady shit that's on Rawkus
Somethin somethin somethin, somethin I get weeded
My daughter scribbled over that rhyme, I couldn't read it
Damn!

[Chorus One]
{Just pull the plug!}
People say that I'm a bad influence
I say the world's already fucked, I'm just addin to it
They say I'm suicidal, teenagers' newest idol {c'mon!}
C'mon do as I do, go ahead get mad and do it
{Just pull the plug!}
People say that I'm a bad influence
I say the world's already fucked, I'm just addin to it
They say I'm suicidal, teenagers' newest idol {c'mon!}
C'mon do as I do, go ahead get mad and do it
{Just let it gooo!}

[Eminem]
Hand me an .8, beam me up and land me in space
I'ma sit on top of the world {I'm here} and shit on Brandy and Mase
I'm more than ill
I'm scarier than a white journalist in a room with Lauryn Hill {Ahh!}
Human horror film
but with a lot funnier plot, and people that feel me
cause I'ma still be Madd Rapper, whether I got money or not {yup}
As long as I'm on pills, and I got plenty of pot
I'll be in a canoe paddlin, makin fun of your yacht
But I would like an award
for the best rapper to get one mic in The Source
and a wardrobe I can afford
Otherwise I might get sent up back-strike in a Ford
And you wonder what the fuck I need more Vicadin for
Everybody's pissin' me off; even the No Limit Tank
looks like a middle finger sideways flippin me off
No shit I'm a great danger to my health
Why else would I kill you then jump in the grave and bury myself

[Chorus Two]
{Just pull the plug!}
People say that I'm a bad influence
I say the world's already fucked, I'm just addin to it
They say I'm suicidal, teenagers' newest idol {c'mon!}
C'mon do as I do, go ahead get mad and do it
{Just let it gooo!}
People say that I'm a bad influence
I say the world's already fucked, I'm just addin to it
They say I'm suicidal, teenagers' newest idol {c'mon!}
C'mon do as I do, go ahead get mad and do it
{Just do it!}

[Eminem]
I'm the illest rapper to hold the cordless, patrollin corners
Looking for hookers to punch in the mouth with a roll of quarters
I'm meaner in action than Roscoe beatin James Todd Sr.
across the back with vacuum cleaner attachments {Ow! Ow! Ow!}
I grew up in a wild hood, as a hazardous youth
with a fucked up childhood, that I used as an excuse
And ain't shit changed, I kept the same mindstate
since the third time that I failed 9th grade
You probably think that I'm a negative person, don't be so sure of it
I don't promote violence, I just encourage it {c'mon}
I laugh at the sight of death
as I fall down a cement flight of steps {ahhhhhhhh!}
and land inside a bed of spider webs
So throw caution to the wind; you and a friend
can jump off of a bridge and if you live, do it again
Shit, why not, blow your brain out, I'm blowin mine out
Fuck it, you only live once, you might as well die now!

[Chorus Three]
{Just let it gooo!}
People say that I'm a bad influence
I say the world's already fucked, I'm just addin to it
They say I'm suicidal, teenagers' newest idol {c'mon!}
C'mon do as I do, go ahead get mad and do it
{Just pull the plug!}
People say that I'm a bad influence
I say the world's already fucked, I'm just addin to it
They say I'm suicidal, teenagers' newest idol {c'mon!}
C'mon do as I do, go ahead get mad and do it
{Just do it!}

[Eminem]
My laser disc gon' make you take a razor to your wrist
Make you satanistic, make you take the pistol to your face
and place the clip and cock it back
and let it go until your brains are rippin out
your skull so bad to sew you back would be a waste of stitches
I'm not a "Role Model," I don't wanna babysit kids
I got one little girl, and Hailey Jade is Shady's business
And Shady's just an alias I made to make you pissed off
Where the fuck were you when Gil was paid to make me dishwash
I make a couple statements and now look how crazy shit got
You made me get a bigger attitude than eighty Kim Scott's
And she almost got the same fate that Grady's bitch got
I knew that "Just the Two of Us" would make you hate me this much
And "Just the Two of Us," that ain't got shit to do with us
and our personal life, it's just words on a mic
So you can call me a punk, a pervert or a chauvinist pig
But the funny shit is that I still go with the bitch!

[Chorus Two]

[Missy]
Slim Shady
Slim Shady
Slim Shady
Slim Shady

[Eminem]
Well I do pop pills, I keep my tube socks filled
Pop the same shit that got Tupac killed
Spit game to these hoes, like a soap opera episode
And punch a bitch in the nose, til her whole face explodes
There's three things I hate: girls, women and bitches
Smack bitches that walk up, and drop-kick midgets
Call me Boogie Night, the stalker that walks awkward
Stick figure, with a dick bigger than Mark Wahlberg
Comin through the airport, sluggish, walkin on crutches
Hit a fuckin [*pregnant chick*] in her [*stomach*] with luggage
It's like a dream I can't snap out, I black out, and back out
Lookin for some other thug, to beat the crap out
I'm bringin you rap singers two middle fingers
I flip you off in French, then translate in English
Then I'ma vanish off the face of the planet and come back
Speakin so much Spanish, Pun can't even understand it

[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] Yeah
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim motherfuckin Shady
[Shady] Yeah
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] Yeah
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy ..

[Eminem]
I had a huge attitude, started off staticky
Mad at you, had you mad at me automatically (one more time)
I'm not a commodity, I'm an oddity
Who oddly enough developed himself a Halloween following
It's so big, if I counted up all the freaks who follow me
I'd probably owe Ozzy Osbourne an apology
College girls, live in an alcoholic's world
Full of earl, head twirls every time the toilet swirls *flush*
Covered in throw-up, and I refuse to grow up
I won't budge, I still tell a grown-up to shut up (SHUT UP!)
I made this rap game suspenseful, cause now I got a impulse
To give you insults wrote with a pencil (bitch)
And waste the paper on you, choppin down the oakwood
Cause everything that you wrote in your notebook was no good
And as long as I stay in the studio and keep cuttin
You motherfuckers are puttin your words together for nuttin

[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] What's the deal?
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim motherfuckin Shady
[Shady] Yeah.. who?
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy .. Slim Shady
[Shady] What's the deal?
[Missy] Won't you busa rhyme for me boy ..

[Missy]
Turn the music up, we gon' wake the neighbors
We gon' get high, we gon' roll to Vegas
Me and Slim Shady, on some shit daily
What you want what you got is it hot? (Is it hot?)

Turn the music up, we gon' wake the neighbors
We gon' get high, we gon' roll to Vegas
Me and Slim Shady, on some shit daily
What you want (yo) what you want (yo) ahh uhh yo

"A person from another planet might disagree with you"
"Well if you want my opinion, it comes from right here on Earth"

[Eminem]
Slim Shady.. Misdemeanor..
Timbaland.. Slim Shady..
Misdemeanor..

I'm homicidal, and suicidal with no friends
Holdin a gun with no handle, just a barrel at both ends
Sprayin tecs at you until you see your fuckin legs
With the bullet holes and the exit wounds layin next to you
(AHH!) Fuckin mad dog, foamin at the mouth
Fuck mouth, my whole house, is foamin at the couch
Jumped out of the 93rd floor of a building
And shot every window out on the way down to the ground (KEEP FILMING!)
Woke up to a hospital staff, got up and laughed, chopped em in half
Suffocated the oxygen mask
Shit if I get any higher, I'ma get the East and West beefin again
Slide back to Detroit and stand in the crossfire

[Missy]
Y'all better call the police 'fore I kill this track
Don't shoot Missy!!! Get back
Uhh, I'ma put you all in the line
Uhh, and I'ma watch you MC's die
Yo mommy, mommy, Missy done lost her mind!
I think somebody done pissed her off this time!
Yo, I'ma have to bust you through your chest and
Uhh, you will have to clean up the mess (uh-huh)
It's rainin rainin and it's pourin loud
Never fear, cause pissy Missy's through the crowd
Uhh, I hear the gats go cha-pow
Who shot me damnit? Bitch get down
Don't walk when I talk, I never talk when I smile (uh-huh)
Lay em on down, like they lived underground (uh)
For the sound, that me and, Timbaland, we found
Get your ass, kicked later, or get your ass, kicked now

Uhh.. one-two
Misdemeanor, Slim Shady
Timbaland, motherfucker
Uhh uhh uhh
Cool, cool, cool
Triple zero

Ah yeah, yo!
This song is dedicated to all the happy people
All the happy people who have real nice lives
And who have no idea whats it like to be broke as fuck

[Verse One:]

I feel like I'm walking a tight rope, without a circus net
I'm popping perkasets, I'm a nervous wreck
I deserve respect; but I work a sweat for this worthless check
Bout to burst this tech, at somebody to reverse this debt
Minimum wage got my adrenaline caged
Full of venom and rage
Especially when I'm engaged
And my daughter's down to her last diaper
That's got my ass hyper
I pray that god answers, maybe I'll ask nicer
Watching ballers while they flossing in their pathfinders
These overnight stars becoming autograph signers
We'll all gone blow up and leave the past behind us
Along with the small fry's and average half pinters
While playa haters turn bitch like they have vaginas
Cause we see them dollar signs and let the cash blind us
Money will brainwash you and leave your ass mindless
Snakes slither in the grass spineless

[Chorus: repeat 2X]

That's Rock Bottom
When this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's Rock Bottom
When you want something bad enough you'll steal
That's Rock Bottom
When you feel you have had it up to here
Cause you mad enough to scream but you sad enough to tear

[Verse Two:]

My life is full of empty promises
And broken dreams
I'm hoping things will look up
But there ain't no job openings
I feel discouraged hungry and malnourished
Living in this house with no furnace, unfurnished
And I'm sick of working dead end jobs with lame pay
And I'm tired of being hired and fired the same day
But fuck it, if you know the rules to the game play
Cause when we die we know were all going the same way
It's cool to be player, but it sucks to be the fan
When all you need is bucks to be the man
Plus a luxury sedan
Too comfortable and roomy in a six
They threw me in the mix
With all these gloomy lunatics
Walk around depressed
And smoke a pound of ses a day
And yesterday went by so quick it seems like it was just today
My daughter wants to throw the ball but I'm too stressed to play
Live half my life and throw the rest away

[Chorus]

There's people that love me and people that hate me
But it's the evil that made me this backstabbing, deceitful, and shady
I want the money, the women, the fortune, and the fame
That Means I'll end up burning in hell scorching in flames
That means I'm stealing your checkbook and forging your name
Lifetime bliss for eternal torture and pain
Right now I feel like just hit the rock bottom
I got problems now everybody on my blocks got 'em
I'm screaming like those two cops when 2pac shot 'em
Holding two glocks, I hope your doors got new locks on 'em
My daughter's feet ain't got no shoes or sock's on 'em
And them rings you wearing look like they got a few rocks on 'em
And while you flaunting them I could be taking them to shops to pawn them
I got a couple of rings and a brand new watch you want 'em
Cause I never went gold of one song
I'm running up on someone's lawns with guns drawn

[Chorus]

OK, I'm going to attempt to drown myself
You can try this at home
You can be just like me!

Mic check one two.. we recordin?
I'm cancerous, so when I diss you wouldn't wanna answer this
If you responded back with a battle rap you wrote for Canibus
I strangled you to death then I choked you again
Then break your fuckin legs till your bones poke through your skin
You beef wit me, I'ma even the score equally
Take you on Jerry Springer, and beat yer ass legally
I get you blunted off of funny home grown
Cause when I smoke out I hit the trees harder than Sonny Bono
(Ohh no!!) So if I said I never did drugs
That would mean I lie AND get fucked more than the President does
Hillary Clinton tried to slap me and call me a pervert
I ripped her fuckin tonsils out and fed her sherbet (Bitch!)
My nerves hurt, and lately I'm on edge
Grabbed Vanilla Ice and ripped out his blonde dreads (Fuck you!)
Every girl I ever went out wit is goin lez
Follow me and do exactly what the song says:
smoke weed, take pills, drop outta school, kill people and drink
And jump behind the wheel like it was still legal
I'm dumb enough to walk in a store and steal
So I'm dumb enough to ask for a date with Lauryn Hill
Some people only see that I'm white, ignorin skill
Cause I stand out like a green hat with a orange bill
But I don't get pissed, y'all don't even see through the mist
How the fuck can I be white, I don't even exist
I get a clean shave, bathe, go to a rave
Die from an overdose and dig myself up out of my grave
My middle finger won't go down, how do I wave?
And this is how I'm supposed to teach kids how to behave?

Now follow me and do exactly what you see
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me!
I slap women and eat shrooms then O.D.
Now don't you wanna grow up to be just like me!

Me and Marcus Allen went over to see Nicole
When we heard a knock at the door, must have been Ron Gold'
Jumped behind the door, put the orgy on hold
Killed em both and smeared blood in a white Bronco (we did it!)
My mind won't work if my spine don't jerk
I slapped Garth Brooks out of his Rhinestone shirt
I'm not a player just a ill rhyme sayer
That'll spray an Aerosol can up at the ozone layer (psssssssh)
My rap style's warped, I'm runnin out the morgue
witcha dead grandmother's corpse to throw it on your porch
Jumped in a Chickenhawk cartoon wit a cape on
And beat up Foghorn Leghorn with an acorn
I'm bout as normal as Norman Bates, with deformative traits
A premature birth that was four minutes late
Mother.. are you there? I love you
I never meant to hit you over the head with that shovel
Will someone explain to my brain that I just severed
a main vein with a chainsaw and I'm in pain?
I take a breather and sighed; either I'm high, or I'm nuts
Cause if you ain't tiltin this room, neither am I
So when you see your mom with a thermometer shoved in her ass
Then it probably is obvious I got it on with her
Cause when I drop this solo shit it's over with
I bought Cage's tape, opened it, and dubbed over it

I came to the club drunk with a fake ID
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me!
I've been with 10 women who got HIV
Now don't you wanna grow up to be just like me!
I got genital warts and it burns when I pee
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me!
I tie a rope around my penis and jump from a tree
You probably wanna grow up to be just like me!!!

[Eminem]
May I have your attention please
May I have your attention please
Will the real Slim Shady please stand up
I repeat, will the real Slim Shady please stand up
We're gonna have a problem here..

Y'all act like you never seen a white person before
Jaws all on the floor like Pam, like Tommy just burst in the door
and started whoopin her ass worse than before
they first were divorce, throwin her over furniture (Ahh!)
It's the return of the... "Ah, wait, no way, you're kidding,
he didn't just say what I think he did, did he"
And Dr. Dre said... nothing you idiots!
Dr. Dre's dead, he's locked in my basement! (Ha-ha!)
Feminist women love Eminem
[*vocal turntable: chigga chigga chigga*]
"Slim Shady, I'm sick of him
Look at him, walkin around grabbin his you-know-what
Flippin the you-know-who," "Yeah, but he's so cute though!"
Yeah, I probably got a couple of screws up in my head loose
But no worse, than what's goin on in your parents' bedrooms
Sometimes, I wanna get on TV and just let loose, but can't
but it's cool for Tom Green to hump a dead moose
"My bum is on your lips, my bum is on your lips"
And if I'm lucky, you might just give it a little kiss
And that's the message that we deliver to little kids
And expect them not to know what a woman's clitoris is
Of course they gonna know what intercourse is
By the time they hit fourth grade
They got the Discovery Channel don't they
"We ain't nothing but mammals.." Well, some of us cannibals
who cut other people open like cantaloupes [*SLURP*]
But if we can hump dead animals and antelopes
then there's no reason that a man and another man can't elope
[*EWWW!*] But if you feel like I feel, I got the antidote
Women wave your pantyhose, sing the chorus and it goes

[Chorus: Eminem (repeat 2X)]

I'm Slim Shady, yes I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up,
please stand up, please stand up

[Eminem]
Will Smith don't gotta cuss in his raps to sell his records;
well I do, so fuck him and fuck you too!
You think I give a damn about a Grammy
Half of you critics can't even stomach me, let alone stand me
"But Slim, what if you win, wouldn't it be weird"
Why So you guys could just lie to get me here
So you can, sit me here next to Britney Spears
Shit, Christina Aguilera better switch me chairs
so I can sit next to Carson Daly and Fred Durst
and hear 'em argue over who she gave head to first
You little bitch, put me on blast on MTV
"Yeah, he's cute, but I think he's married to Kim, hee-hee!"
I should download her audio on MP3
and show the whole world how you gave Eminem VD [*AHHH!*]
I'm sick of you little girl and boy groups, all you do is annoy me
so I have been sent here to destroy you [*bzzzt*]
And there's a million of us just like me
who cuss like me; who just don't give a fuck like me
who dress like me; walk, talk and act like me
and just might be the next best thing but not quite me!

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
I'm like a head trip to listen to, cause I'm only givin you
things you joke about with your friends inside your living room
The only difference is I got the balls to say it
in front of y'all and I don't gotta be false or sugarcoated at all
I just get on the mic and spit it
and whether you like to admit it [*ERR*] I just shit it
better than ninety percent of you rappers out can
Then you wonder how can kids eat up these albums like valiums
It's funny; cause at the rate I'm goin when I'm thirty
I'll be the only person in the nursin home flirting
Pinchin nurses asses when I'm jackin off with Jergens
And I'm jerkin but this whole bag of Viagra isn't working
And every single person is a Slim Shady lurkin
He could be workin at Burger King, spittin on your onion rings
[*HACH*] Or in the parkin lot, circling
Screaming "I don't give a fuck!"
with his windows down and his system up
So, will the real Shady please stand up
And put one of those fingers on each hand up
And be proud to be outta your mind and outta control
and one more time, loud as you can, how does it go

[Chorus 2X]

[Eminem]
Ha ha
Guess there's a Slim Shady in all of us
Fuck it, let's all stand up

Guess Who

Did you Miss me?

Jessica Simpson sing the chorus

Dina Rea – (Eminem)
(CHORUS)
When you walked through the door
It was clear to me (clear to me)
You’re the one they adore, who they came to see (who they came to see)
You’re a … rock star (baby)
Everybody wants you (everybody wants you)
Player… Who could really blame you (who could really blame you)
We're the ones who made you

(VERSE ONE)
Back by popular demand
Now pop a little Zantac or ant'-acid if you can
You're ready to tackle any task that is at hand
How does it feel, is it fantastic, is it grand?
Well look at all the massive masses in the stands
Shady man… no don’t massacre the fans
Damn, I think Kim Kardashian's a man
She stomped him just cause he asked to put his hands
On her massive Gluteus maximus again
Squeeze it, then Squish it, then pass it to her friend
Can he come back as nasty as he can
Yes he can, can, don’t ask me this again
He does not mean to lesbian offend
But Lindsay please come back to seeing men
Samantha’s a 2, You’re practically a 10
I know you want me girl,
In fact I see your grin
(Now come in girl)

(CHORUS)
When you walked through the door
It was clear to me (clear to me)
You’re the one they adore, who they came to see (who they came to see)
You’re a … rock star (baby)
Everybody wants you (everybody wants you)
Player… Who could really blame you (who could really blame you)
We're the ones who made you

(VERSE TWO)
The enforcer, looking for more women to torture
Walk up to the cutest girl and Charlie Horse her
Sorry Portia, but what’s Ellen DeGeneres
Have that I don't, are you telling me tenderness?
Well I can be as gentle and as smooth as a gentleman
Give me my ventolin inhaler and 2 Xenadrine
And I'll invite Sarah Palin out to dinner then
Nail her, 'Baby say hello to my little friend'
Brit f’rget K-Fed let’s cut off the middle man
Forget him or your gonna end up in the hospital again
And this time it won’t be for the Ritalin binge
Forget them other men, girl pay them little atten-tion
A little did I mention, that Jennifer's in-
Love with me John Mayer so sit on the bench
Man I swear them other guys you give ‘em an inch
They take a mile, they got style, but it isn't Slim

(CHORUS)
When you walked through the door
It was clear to me (clear to me)
You’re the one they adore, who they came to see (who they came to see)
You’re a … rock star (baby)
Everybody wants you (everybody wants you)
Player… Who could really blame you (who could really blame you)
We're the ones who made you

(VERSE THREE)
And that’s why… my love
You'll never live without,
I know you want me girl cause I can see you checking me out
And baby, you know, you know you want me too
Don’t try to deny it baby, I’m the only one for you

Damn girl I’m beginning to sprout an Alfalfa
Why should I wash my filthy mouth out
You think that’s bad you should hear the rest of my album
Never has there been such finesse and nostalgia
Man Cash, I don’t mean to mess up your gal but
Jessica Alba put a breast in my mouth(brrp)
Wowzers, I just made a mess of my trousers
And they wonder why I keep dressing like Elvis
Lord help us he's back in his pink Alf shirt
Looking like someone shrinked his outfit
I think he’s about to flip
Jessica rest assure, Superman’s here to rescue ya
Can you blame me?
You’re my Amy, I’m your Blake
Matter fact make me a birthday cake
With a saw blade in it to make my jail break
Baby, I think you just met your soul mate
(Now break it down girl)

(CHORUS)
When you walked through the door
It was clear to me (clear to me)
You’re the one they adore, who they came to see (who they came to see)
You’re a … rock star (baby)
Everybody wants you (everybody wants you)
Player… Who could really blame you (who could really blame you)
We're the ones who made you

So baby, baby
Get down, down, down

Baby, get down, down down
Baby, get down, down down
Baby, get down, get down

Baby, get down, down down
Baby, get down, down down
Baby, get down, down down
Baby, get down, get down

Oh Amy, Rehab never looked so good,
I can't wait, I’m going back!! HAHA Whooo!

Dr. Dre, 2020, Yeah

[Eminem]:
I ain't gonna eat, I ain't gonna sleep
Ain't gonna breathe, til I see, what I wanna see
And what I wanna see, is you go to sleep, in the dirt
Permanently, you just being hurt, this ain't gonna work
For me, it just wouldn't be, sufficient enough
Cause we, are just gonna be, enemies
As long as we breathe, I don't ever see, either of us
Coming to terms, where we can agree
There ain't gonna be, no reason, speakin' with me
You speak on my seed, then me, no speak Ingles
So we gonna beed, and keep on beefin', unless
You're gonna agree, to meet with me in the flesh
And settle this face to face, and you're gonna see
A demon unleashed in me, that you've never seen
And you're gonna see, this gangsta pee on himself
I see you D-12, and thanks, but me no need help
Me do this one all by my lonely, I don't need fifteen of my homies
When I see you, I'm seeing you, me and you only
We never met, but best believe you gone know me
When I'm this close, to see you exposed as phony
Come on, bitch, show me, pick me up, throw me
Lift me up, hold me, just like you told me
You was gonna do, that's what I though, you're pitiful
I'm rid of you, all you, Ja, you'll get it too

[Chorus - Eminem (DMX)]:
Now go to sleep bitch
Die, motherfucker, die, ugh, time's up, bitch, close ya eyes
Go to sleep, bitch (what?)
Why are you still alive? how many times I gotta say, close ya eyes
And go to sleep bitch (what?)
Die motherfucker, die, bye, bye, motherfucker, bye, bye
Go to sleep bitch (what?)
Why are you still alive? Why, die motherfucker, ah, ah, ah
...Go to sleep bitch

[Obie Trice]:
We got niggas, nervous
On purpose, to hurt your focus, you's not MC's, you's worthless
You's not them G's, you's a circus, you's no appeal, please
You's curtains, you use words, cool heard, slurred in two thousand third
You's purpin', you's no threat, who's ya servin'?
When lyrically oughta bury you beneath the dirt when
You fuck with a lavel overseein' the Earth
Shady motherfucka, O. Trice's birth
And as I mold, I become a curse
So we can put down the verse, take it to the turf
Cock and squeeze, and he who reach the hearse is he who
Depicts fiction in his verse
And as I breathe, and you be deceased
The world believe you deceived just to speak
You's not the streets, you's the desk
Use not your chest nigga, use a vest
Before two's choose ya rest, you chose death
Six feet deep, nigga, that's the debt

[Chorus]

[DMX]:
Hey dawg, I'm a walk like a beast, talk like the streets
I'm a stay blazin' New York with the heat
Stalk on the beat, walk with my feet
Understand my pain, the rain ain't sweet
Peep how I'm moving, peep where I'm going
Shit don't sleep, then sleep not knowin'
But I'm a keep growing, getting larger than life
Easy going wit the same one that started the fight
He be knowing how dog get, when dog gon' bite
Tried to show him the dog shit, it's dawg for life
Grand champ, and my Blood Line is tight
Cause it's all good, it's all right
Niggas tried to holla, but couldn't holla back
Now they gots to swallow, everything in the sack
Blood Line, and, we can go track for track
Damn dog, why'd you have to do them niggas like that?

[Chorus]

[All you motherfuckers, take that
Here, take this too, bitch, uh, uh, uh, uh...
We're killin' all you motherfuckers dead, all you
Fake ass gangsters, no more press, no more press
Rot, motherfuckers, rot, decay, in the dirt, bitch
In the motherfucking dirt
Die nameless, bitch, die nameless, no more fame...
...Yo X, come on man, Obie, let's go...

(feat. Eye-Kyu)

[Eye-Kyu:] Now what you know about a sweet MC, from the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you gotta become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Eminem:] Man what you know about a sweet MC, in the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you better become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Verse 1: Eye-Kyu]
Yo some people say I'm whack, now if that's right
I'm the freshest whack MC that you ever heard, in your lifetime
My slick accapella sounds clever with the beats
Boy I'm the deepest thing since potholes to ever hit the streets
Forgot a gold digger's succubus , my souls thick with ruggedness
With the mic I'm like a dyke, can't no nigga fuck with this
I got more Different Strokes than Philip Drummound
On open mic I bone your women just to keep my lyrics coming (bitch)
We elevated to new heights premeditated
Let it be that I stated they hate it now that they see that I made it
The escalated can be put to the test of greatness
Snatch the heart from MC's and I ate it
So I take it that's the reason I'm hated
To represent my temperment
If rap was a dick all you so called hard MC's would not be impitant
But pimping it, and acting like you could rock a show (so)
Harder than LL's Rock the Bells, but you is a ho (now)
Everything that you collaborate I lacerate
My rhymes they keep coming like nympho maniacs that masturbate
At a faster rate, yeah I got something for your ass to hate
I blasterate, and have you all running master gates
And as for face clutching and touching the flows
I got them open like marijuana smoke up in your nose
Bucking these hoes, I got that shit down to a science
Leaving them hot and bothered, turned on like an appliance
Defiance, no we won't have that
You want your shit to blow up
Well I'ma stuff some dynamite in your ass crack
And blast that shit to kingdom come
Then bring them some of this real hip-hop
I drop beats and you ain't singing or gonna do a thing about
And you all knew from Meeko
That you couldn't hold your own with the strength of Lou Forigno
So stop that bullshit and flow
Yo, you need to come with the real skills, and act like you know

[Chorus: Eminem]
So what you know about a sweet MC, in the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you better become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Eye-Kyu:] Now what you know about a sweet MC, from the 313
None of these skills you bout to see come free
So you wanna be the sweet MC, you gotta become me
If you ever wanna be one see

[Verse 2: Eminem]
So what, you know about a sweet MC, in the 313
You don't know shit so when you see one flee
You can be Run-D, you'll never beat the MC
I'll stop the alphabet at S and got it down to a T
I'm sure your bound to agree, a sweet MC crashes the spot
I'll make the roof hot like I was Rock Master Scott
Your ass forgot, so just in case you don't remember me
I'll run your brain around the block to jog your fucking memory
It's either them or me man, kill or be killed
You will and be sealed your casket closed you still gonna be billed
My facilities filled with fans, packed to capacity
I'll send a rapper back with the crack of his ass shitty
If he's acting soft and he cowers
He better come cleaner then Jay Rue jacking off when he showers
You flowers got no clout with a thing
You could date a stick of dynamite and wouldn't go out with a bang
I showered the slang, simple as A,B,C's
Skip over the D's and rock the microphone with E's
Dethrone MC's and I'ma max alone
Relax your dome like a solo from a saxophone
So facts are known, writers get treated with shocks
I rock a beat harder then you could beat it with rocks
I'm greeted with flocks, of fellow follower's singers
You couldn't make the fans throw up their hands if they swallowed their
fingers
But you can bring yours let's see what you got
But don't front and never try to be what you're not
Cause you can be quick, jump the candlestick, burn your back
And fuck Jill on a hill, but you still ain't Jack

[Chorus: Eye-Kyu]
So what you know about a sweet MC, from the 313
None of these skills you just seen come free
So you wanna be a sweet MC, you'll never become

Police voice:]
Attention all units, attention all units
We have an All Points Bulletin out on a man with green hair
I repeat, we have an APB on a man with green hair
He's armed with a knife, I repeat, he's armed with a knife
Proceed with caution, watch your back fella's
He could be coming at your girlfriend next

[Verse 1:]
There's a joker on the loose from the psychiatric ward
His face is up on the bulletin board with a reward
He'll stab you with a sword don't be fooled by his charm
He's probably armed with intent to do bodily harm
Ring the alarm, look for a man with green hair
Check at your girl's house, he was last seen there
He's has a mean stare but usually crack's jokes
Good luck on your mission and guard your backs folks

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 2:]
We got the walkie-talkies to keep us all informed
Suited up head to toe in detective uniforms
Our unit storms in, we split the ghetto in sectors
Locking down every block and put up metal detectors
Protectors and be sure that you stand close
Watch each others backs and guard your command post
And most of all be advised that he's wise
He could be disguised as one of your very own guys

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 3:]
I'm on a solo mission to find him personally
To settle the score and beat then him mercifully
For what he first did to me
It's sure to be the last
Following footprints with a magnifying glass
To drag his lying ass back to his padded cell
I'm mad as hell, on the trail of the tattle tail
I heard a yell the voice sounded familiar
"Give me your girlfriend or I'm gonna kill ya"

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 4:]
I followed the voice that led down a flight of steps
Sneezing at dust, and swinging at the spider-webs
Inside the depths of his basement
I taste lint in my mouth, then the lights in the placeÅ went!
I saw my life flash in front of my eyes
I felt a butcher knife slash at one of my thighs
None of my guys knew where I'm at I was doomed
Then I remembered the flashlight in my costume

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

[Verse 5:]
Dealing with backstabber's there was one thing I learned
They're only powerful when you got your back turned
I yearned for the day that we finally met again
So I can give him a taste of his own medicine
He shed his skin, then he promised to come clean
I took his butcher knife and jabbed it into his spleen
Cut him at the seam then dragged the fella home
Beating him over the head with the telephone

[Police voice:]
Attention all cars, attention all cars
Unit 313 has apprehended the suspect
He's going back to the crazy home, I repeat
He's going back to the crazy home, how about that

[Chorus:]
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

(feat. Eye-Kyu)

[Eye-Kyu:] Check it out,
[Eminem:] Hey Kyu!

[Eye-Kyu:]
[Chorus:]
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
One day I plan to be a family man happily married
I wanna grow to be so old that I have to be carried
Till I'm glad to be buried
And leave this crazy world
And have at least a half a million for my baby girl
It may be early to be planning this stuff
Cause I'm still struggling hard to be the man, and it's tough
Cause man it's been rough, but still I manage enough
I've been taken advantage of, damaged and scuffed
My hands have been cuffed
But I don't panic and huff, frantic and puff
Or plan to give up, the minute shit hits the fan it erupts
I'm anteing up double or nothing, I've been trouble enough
And I'm sick of struggling and suffering, see
My destiny's to rest at ease, till I'm impressed and pleased
With my progress, I won't settle for less than cheese
I'm on a quest to seize all, my own label to call
Way before my baby is able to crawl
I'm too stable to fall, the pressure motivates
To know I hold the weight of boulders on my shoulder blades
I seen the golden gates to heaven on Earth
Where they don't pull a weapon on you when you stepping on turf, Q

[Eye-Kyu:]
[Chorus:]
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I'm going for broke, gambling and playing for keeps
Everyday in the streets, scrambling and paying for cheep
Praying for sleep
Dreaming with a watering mouth
Wishing for a better life for my daughter and spouse
In this slaughtering house, caught up in bouts
With the root of all evil
I've seen it turn beautiful people crude and deceitful
And make them do shit illegal
For these Grant's and Jackson's
These transactions explain a man's actions
But in the mist of this insanity, I found my Christianity
Through God and there's a wish he granted me
He showed me how to cope with the stress
And hope for the best, instead of mope and depressed
Always groping a mess, of flying over the nest
To selling dope with the rest
I quit smoking cess to open my chest
Life is stressful inside this cesspool
Trying to wrestle, I almost bust a blood vessel
My little brother's trying to learn his mathematics
He's asthmatic, running home from school away from crack addicts
Kids attract static, children with automatics
Taking target practice on teens for Starter Jackets
I'm using smarter tactics to overcome this slum
I won't become as dumb as some and succumb to scum
It's cumbersome, I'm trying to do well on this Earth
But it's been Hell on this Earth since I fell on this Earth

[Eye-Kyu:]
[Chorus:]
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)
It's a broke day but everything is ok (It's ok)
I'm up all night, but everything is alright (It's alright)
It's a rough week, and I don't get enough sleep (I can't sleep)
It's a long year pretending I belong here (Belong here)

Uh, it's ok, yeah it's alright, even though I can't sleep
Uh yeah, it's ok, it's alright, I can't sleep

Men singing:
Jealous! (8X)

[Girls voice: (Talking over the singing)]
Jealous!! What he mean jealous, know what I'm saying
He just mad cause he got with some ugly hoes, know what I'm saying
Girls don't buy him no clothes, He bought that ho some clothes!!
He don't buy me no clothes, Nigga ain't got no money, no vibe, no dick
I mean, What do I got to be jealous for
He ain't gonna make it no where, he ain't got no type of time
He has no career move, I mean...

[Verse 1:]
I come home every single day from working double shifts
And stop along the way to pick you up a couple gifts
I come inside and you pretend you miss me when you kiss me
Then you diss me and we strenuously fight continuously
Again you frisk me, for numbers trying to bust me
It must be only just because you never learned to trust me
Plus we only grovel only irrelevant issues
To many tissues, for my feelings you misuse
I buy you jewelry, you make a fool of me
I bring you diamond rings you say I'm bad at timing things
So what's a man to do when all i hand to you is handed back to me
You act to be this gangsta bitch, that ain't what first attracted me
I used to love your company now you always bugging me
For information and you tell your friends you plan on dumping me
So I'ma wait for your evacuation
Cause every accusation makes me wanna smack your face in
See I've never been so sure, and your just insecure
So my solution to your jealousy presents a cure
I recommend you take your things and check them in
Look at the nervous wreck I'm in, I need my second wind, Say What

[Chorus: Men Singing]
Jealous, Jealousy, Jealousy (8X)

[Women's Voice: (Talking over singing)]
Fuck you and what you going through
Fuck Eminem, he just mad cause I left that nigga for another man
Me and Eminem don't need nothing but my and his money
Immature, Me Nigga ain't got no dick, no swang in his thang
Know what I'm saying He just mad cause I'm getting it all night
Jealous of me, know what I'm saying That's what I'm talking about
Mother fucker just trying to get his pussy

[Verse 2:]
I used to be a puppet and a sucker for your silent treatments
I used to be intoxicated with your sweet sense
Until the day I started following your feetprints
And tapping in your phone conversations through the heat vents
It made complete sense, there's someone else you like
So I confronted you and asked you who was Mike
And you was like, (sampled) **I need a new nigga**
Someone rich that I could follow
And you'll be over me by the time you see tomorrow
Leaving me in sorrow, Brandy never felt so broken hearted
I fell apart when you departed then the joking started
I was an open target, you play comedian
And I became the laughing stock. but now I'm on my feet again
And so we meet again, your acting like an ex-wife
All in my sex life, I got a message from Phife
He goes, "You didn't want me to see you then, I don't want you now"
Take a towel, wipe your brow, quit trying to hunt me down
You run me down and now your trying to apologize
For all the lies and everytime you made me ball my eyes
Because I got a bigger wallet size, you wanna swing it
Jealousy is in the house ya'll, Fellas sing it...

[Chorus: Men Singing]
Jealous, Jealousy, Jealousy (12X)

Hey what up man
What up god
Ya heard
Chillen, cold as hell
Yes it is, hey Busta didn't come here did he
No, hey look, you got fifteen cent
Nah, I got just enough to get on the bus, I'm broke
We gotta go to the store alright man quick cause I'm short
Yeah, we gonna have enough time to go to the store
Nah, look..
You should just, how much you got there
I only got 75, I'm sure I got a dollar know what I mean..
Just throw it in there they ain't gonna know
You know what look, I'm sick of taking this damn bus everywhere man
You gotta make some moves or something
I know look, I'm trying to get rich,
I got a baby on the way, I don't even got a car,
you know what I'm saying
I still stay with my moms, 21 and still with my moms
Look hey, we gotta make some hit records or something,
you know what I'm saying Cause I'm tired of being broke

[Verse 1:]
Cause all I do is yearn a life without a concern
And dream of having a turn to earn money to burn
Mapping out my strategies to get rich huh
My desire is like a scratch that needs to get itched huh
Cause man I live in the D, this shit ain't given for free
Nothing's different to me, so what, it's easy to see
I'll be the prisoner to flee, all of this misery
I'm not wishing to be another fish in the sea
But just an MC, so listen to me, but if you disagree
You missing the key, you ain't even in the brisk of the tea
Unconditionally my aspects to cash checks
My objects were never to swab decks
It's up to you the decision is yours
If what you vision is tours, or a mission less course
When shit is in the stores, cause you can be a star

[Chorus:]
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh

You know what I'm saying, see what I'm talking about man
Cause that's it
Yeah
A million dollars ain't even that far away man
Yo we got to get the money man, I can't be broke for the rest of my life
Yeah I hear what your saying,
look there's got to be something better, you know what I'm saying
I can't live like this for the rest of my life man,
bumming rides everywhere I go
Yeah, what's up with Lexus' and Land cruisers'

[Verse 2:]
Yo I'm not about to chance it and dismiss handling business
I'm canceling Christmas to gamble and risk this
Financial interest is the matter at hand
I got an adequate plan for stab at a grand
I grab what I can and do what I must
Pursue what I lust, it's true that I just choose
The few that I trust, thems the people that I still got
Fuck with gangsta fill pot, get your grill shot
The 5 Elemantz for life my man Thyme
Proof, Kyu and Denaun, we move through into time
My crews true and divine, we never fronted
We just wanted to be funded, and live to be a hundred
Instead of hunted or being wanted as fugitives
It's all about a man planning what his future is
What he can do for his to be a star

[Chorus:]
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh

That's what I'm talking about, I'm not trying to be the player,
I'm trying to be the man, I'm want to be President
Yo forgot that President man I'm trying to be king,
making dead presidents, you know what I'm saying
Yeah
Getting money anytime I want owning my own businesses and all that,
you know what I'm saying
Yeah, I'm trying to be a millionare man, hahaha, but don't all you know
You only live once
ninety six baby

(feat. Danaun Porter)

[Women Singing:]
Ain't no one special, special like you (4X)
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (4X)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'm reminiscing on your tenderness and the snuggling and teasing
Missing what I remember, kissing and hugging and squeezing
Bugging and weezing, I'm having trouble when breathing
It's even tougher when sleeping
But there's a couple of reasons that I'm suffering and grieving
For loving and leaving, you all I'm thinking of in the evening
You got my knees buckling and weakening
Thoughts of nothing but freaking that I'm struggling to keep in
And interrupt when I'm speaking
I got some game that I'm preparing to run
The way your lips sparkle and glare in the sun
You got your hair in a bun, no matter what you're wearing you stun
Cause your comparing to none, I wanna share in the fun
I feel a passionate lust when I'm imagining just us alone at last with a
touch
I see you grasping to trust, but my intentions are good
The seed is passing in dust
I'm not asking to rush and answer immediately
I just wanna be there for you and you to be there for me
If you agree to repeat after me, I Love You (I love you baby)
Cause I just need you to see, how much I'm eager to be
Your man legally wed, your love's keeping me fed
This is easily said, so you can lead or be led
If you care to be down cause ain't nobody Like you no where to be found

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (4X)

[Verse 2: Denaun Porter]
Baby it's all on you, it's you I call on boo
Let's set a day up so you can fall on through
We'll take a spin in a Lexus you can chill for dinner and breakfast
Long enough to see how this gentleman sex'es
We'll start it out with caviar, Don Parigne
And then when it's a fact we are warm, carry on
We'll take it slow, see nobody will hurry things
I got the herbs the Bacardi and Hurricane
If Daiquiris are in debate and not your thing that day
It's still all right cause I got Minute Maid and Tangeray
Your an incredible one that's rare, in bed with edible underwear
You look impeccable, nothing compares
I dream of freaking you, the women that will speak it too so
It seems that there is not an end to things that we can do so
Now we all set to play, only thing left to say is
When you step away, baby but don't forget the Neglicie

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (8X)
Ain't no one special, special like you (2X)

[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight

[Verse 1:]
I'm getting mad love, I'm snuggling hugs
Druggling thugs, smuggling drugs, juggling jobs, guzzling jugs
So here's a toast to federal checks
Hetero sex, unaffordable medical debts, huh
We travel in packs and ravel in facts and gravel in cracks
To find babbling Max, gaffling tracks
I grapple an axe for them baffling acts
The mysterious stab in the backs who dabble in wax
Still in my yard when I sculpted the culprit
The tall shit that will end up with his skull split
Then I buried the hatchet, I carried on my back
Butterfingers is here and it's necessary to scratch it
Baby all I wanna do is swallow one and two
Smoke a little bit and follow one of you
Back home when the party ends
So tonight I'm dropping naughty hints
To the finest women in the audience

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight (blends in with lyrics)

[Eminem:]
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright

[Verse 2:]
Ayo, biters are like tarantulas, vandealous
Living as scandalous as a television evangelist
But I can handle this, I'm the rhyme biter crime fighter
Caped crusader, taking care of undeserving lime lighters
I think a living never meant for me
Experimentally I found a way to spread interamentally
When I stumbled upon this resolution
By using a special fusion of chemical solution for this resolution
You couldn't see me with binoculars
I armed like an octopus
Step on stage and you get socked and pushed
Talking that junk like you went black, guarded your back
Come battle me and you get smacked as hard as you act
When I rap I represent it and will never referee in it
Every minute so when I win it you never resent it
I'm forever demented, come up with funk, I'll never be scented
You got the point when I cleverly said it

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight (blends in with lyrics)

[Eminem:]
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright

[Verse 3:]
Eminem is heading skyward
For those who thought that I would make you bored and treat you like a piece
of plywood
I've got miracle lyrical capability all in me
With the agility to escape a killer bee colony
So get your cameras and capture how miraculous
I rap for all you Draculas and showed you all how whack you was
I meant it as a dis, cause you don't posses the pizzazz as this
I'm hazardous enough already as it is
Without you adding fuel to the fire
I'm cruel to the liar
Who fails to recognize my reign of hell, rule to the sire
Clinical studies show that I'm cynical
There's no one who's identical to my fresh and authentic flow
I'm sure the party people can agree
That I'm enchanting, with the romantic
Freaking the vocals so frantically
So throw your hands up in the atmosphere
And let them know the only party that was phat was here, just be like

[Chorus:]
[Women Singing:]
Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight, Tonight (blends in with lyrics)

[Eminem:]
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright
Cause we came here to do this tonight
We don't wanna fight, we don't want no one feeling uptight
Cause we came here to do this tonight
Till the morning light hope that everyone's feeling alright

[Doctor] Scalpel
[Nurse] Here
[Doctor] Sponge
[Nurse] Here
[Doctor] Wait.. he's convulsing, he's convulsing!
[Nurse] Ah!
[Doctor] We're gonna have to shock him!
[Nurse] Oh my! Oh my God!
[Doctor] We're gonna have to shock him!
[Nurse] Oh my God!

[Eminem]
These are the results of a thousand electric volts
A neck with bolts, "Nurse we're losin him, check the pulse!"
A kid who refused to respect adults
Wore spectacles with taped frames and a freckled nose
A corny lookin white boy, scrawny and always ornery
Cause I was always sick of brawny bullies pickin on me
And I might snap, one day just like that
I decided to strike back and flatten every tire on the bike rack
(Whosssssh) My first day in junior high, this kid said,
"It's you and I, three o'clock sharp this afternoon you die"
I looked at my watch it was one twenty
"I already gave you my lunch money what more do you want from me!"
He said, "Don't try to run from me, you'll just make it worse..."
My palms were sweaty, and I started to shake at first
Something told me, "Try to fake a stomach ache it works"
I screamed, "Owww! My appendix feels like they could burst!
Teacher, teacher, quick I need a naked nurse!"
[N] "What's the matter"
[E] "I don't know, my leg, it hurts!"
[N] "Leg! I thought you said it was your tummy!"
[E] "Oh, I mean it is, but I also got a bum knee!"
[N] "Mr. Mathers, the fun and games are over.
And just for that stunt, you're gonna get some extra homework."
[E] "But don't you wanna give me after school detention"
[N] "Nah, that bully wants to beat your ass and I'ma let him."

[Chorus: repeat 2X]

Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin
But everywhere I go they keep playin my song

[Eminem]
Brain damage..
Way before my baby daughter Hailey
I was harassed daily by this fat kid named D'Angelo Bailey
An eighth grader who acted obnoxious, cause his father boxes
so everyday he'd shove me in the lockers
One day he came in the bathroom while I was pissin
And had me in the position to beat me into submission
He banged my head against the urinal til he broke my nose,
Soaked my clothes in blood, grabbed me and choked my throat
I tried to plead and tell him, "We shouldn't beef"
But he just wouldn't leave, he kept chokin me and I couldn't breathe
He looked at me and said, "You gonna die honkey!"
The principal walked in (What's going on in here)
and started helpin him stomp me
I made them think they beat me to death
Holdin my breath for like five minutes before they finally left
Then I got up and ran to the janitor's storage booth
Kicked the door hinge loose and ripped out the four inch screws
Grabbed some sharp objects, brooms, and foreign tools
"This is for every time you took my orange juice,
or stole my seat in the lunchroom and drank my chocolate milk.
Every time you tipped my tray and it dropped and spilt.
I'm gettin you back bully! Now once and for good."
I cocked the broomstick back and swung hard as I could
and beat him over the head with it til I broke the wood
Knocked him down, stood on his chest with one foot..
.. Made it home, later that same day
Started reading a comic, and suddenly everything became gray
I couldn't even see what I was tryin to read
I went deaf, and my left ear started to bleed
My mother started screamin, "What are you on, drugs!
Look at you, you're gettin blood all over my rug!" (Sorry!)
She beat me over the head with the remote control
opened a hole, and my whole brain fell out of my skull
I picked it up and screamed, "Look bitch, what have you done!"
[M] "Oh my God, I'm sorry son"
[E] "Shut up you cunt!" I said, "Fuck it!"
Took it and stuck it back up in my head
then I sewed it shut and put a couple of screws in my neck

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
Brain damage..
It's brain damage..
I got brain damage..
It's brain damage..
It's probably brain damage..
It's brain damage..
Brain damage..
I got brain damage..

[Girl]
Hmm-hmm-hmhmhmmhm.. ahhh, whooooo!! Shit
[Em]
Yo, mic check
Testing one, two, um... twelve
(whattup whattup whattup.. Outsidaz)
[Em]
This is my dance song (Outsidaz)
Can you hear me
(Rah Digga, Pacewon, Young Zee)
[Em]
Aight, ay turn my headphones up
(bust it bust it)

[Eminem]
My favoite color is red, like the blood shed
from Kurt Cobain's head, when he shot himself dead
Women all grabbin at my shishkabob
Bought Lauryn Hill's tape so her kids could starve
(I can't stand white people!)
You thought I was livid, now I'm even more so
Shit I got full blown AIDS and a sore throat
I got a wardrobe with an orange robe {*wolf whistle*}
I'm in the fourth row, signin autographs at your show
(Yo can you sign this right here)
I just remembered that I'm absent minded
Wait, I mean I've lost my mind, I can't find it
I'm freestylin every verse that I spit
cause I don't even remember the words to my shit (umm, one two)
I told the doc I need a change in sickness
and gave a girl herpes in exchange for syphilis
Put my LP on your Christmas gift list
You wanna get high, here bitch just sniff this

Cum on everybody -- get down tonight (8X)

[Eminem]
Yo.. yo yo yo yo
I tried suicide once and I'll try it again
That's why I write songs where I die at the end
Cause I don't give a fuck, like my middle finger was stuck
and I was wavin it at everybody screamin, "I suck" (I SUCK!!!)
I go on stage in front of a sellout crowd
and yell out loud, "All y'all get the hell out now"
Fuck rap, I'm givin it up y'all, I'm sorry
(But Eminem this is your record release party!)
I'm bored out of my gourd -- so I took a hammer
and nailed my foot to the floorboard of my Ford
Guess I'm just a sick sick bastard
who's one sandwich short of a picnic basket (I ain't got it all)
One Excederin tablet short of a full medicine cabinet
I feel like my head has been shredded like lettuce and cabbage
(ohhhhhhh) And if you ever see a video for this shit
I'll probably be dressed up like a mummy with my wrists slit

Cum on everybody -- get down tonight (8X)

[Eminem]
Got bitches on my jock out in East Detroit
Cause they think that I'm a motherfuckin Beastie Boy {*wolf whistle*}
So I told em I was Mike D
They was like, "Gee I don't know, he might be!"
I told em, "Meet me at Kid Rock's next concert
I'll be standin by the Loch Ness Monster (okay) peace out (bye!!)"
Then I jetted to the weed house
Smoked out til I started bustin freestyles
Broke out then I dipped quick back to the crib, put on lipstick
Crushed up the Tylenol and ate it with a dipstick (*slurping*}
Made a couple of crank calls collect [*brrrrrrring, click*]
"Ken Kaniff from Connecticut, can you accept"
I wanna make songs all the fellas dub
And murder every rich rapper that I'm jealous of
So just remember when I bomb your set
Yo, I only cuss to make your mom upset

Cum on everybody -- get down tonight (20X)

[Eminem]
Get back, get back
You better get back, get back, back

You better get back, get back
You better get back, get back back *repeat both lines 3x*
You better...

[Proof]
Doin a box of doctrine, on stompin oxygen
? ? wit fork to your optic lens
Hittin wit a sudden force
Leave your boy layin in the same puddle of blood as yours
When I flood his porch
Smuugle a gun in court and shoot the judge
Easily reduce a thug to a future scrub
A double-deuce wit slugs, I'm Proof on drugs
We'll turn you to a rapper that we used to love
How you on medicine cabinet pills
Grabbin the steel, leapin over buildings that haven't been built
I'm not the best yet cuz I haven't been killed
I'm laughin at you faggot-ass rappin for deals, you better

[Eminem]
Get back, get back
You better get back, get back back
You better get back, get back
You better get back, get back back
You better get back, get back
You better get back, get back back
You better get back, get back
You better get back, get back back
You better...

I'm disappointed in my dentist appointment
He only gave me the fuckin gas for thirty minutes this mornin
Went to the hospital to get a chest X-ray
Checked out the next day in a dress wit a sex change
I'm havin a bad day
My fuckin dad's gay, I hate fags, and I'm fuckin mad cuz I don't have AIDS
All I want to do is die
I tried suicide six times and couldn't even do it right
Collapsed, had a relapse and called three cabs
And had to be dragged back to rehab wit bloody kneecaps
Enrolled myself in a twelve-step program
Tripped on the first step and got pinned down in a chokeslam
I swear to God, this 'Pac poster comes any closer
I'm kickin this whole fuckin wall over
Two more shots and it's all over
I'm all over this wall, tryin not to fall over

[Bizarre]
BLOAW BLOAW!
Shots in broad day
(BIZARRE, THAT'S YOUR MOM!)
The bitch shouldn't have been in the way
Me, Shady and Mike fuckin a hemaphrodite
My little sister was a virgin till late last night
High off a kite off of stick of sherm
Put your mother in a full-nelson while my boys take turns
A unibomber tryin to escape this country
Tell O.J. he better be comin up wit my money
Bizarre goes commerical? Nigga, you can forget it
B-- suck my *dick* that is the radio edit
I'm quick to smack the shit out of a foe
I ain't had pussy in a while, I'm too busy fuckin assholes
Battle me, you better go eat your vegetables
I'm iller than a Muslim eatin a pork hotdog in African festival
This shit is serious, watch me sniff 'cane
Avoid the pain and fuck a bitch barely potty-trained

[Eminem]
Get back, get back
You better get back, get back back

You better get back, get back
You better get back, get back back *repeat both lines 5x*
You better get the FUCK back

"Get back" *cut up and repeated*

feat. Dr. Dre)

[sound of static]

[announcer]
Meet Eddie, twenty-three years old.
Fed up with life and the way things are going,
he decides to rob a liquor store.
("I can't take this no more, I can't take it no more homes")
But on his way in, he has a sudden change of heart.
And suddenly, his conscience comes into play...
("Shit is mine, I gotta do this.. gotta do this")

[Dr. Dre]
Alright, stop! (Huh)
Now before you walk in the door of this liquor store
and try to get money out the drawer
You better think of the consequence (But who are you)
I'm your motherfuckin conscience

[Eminem]
That's nonsense!
Go in and gaffle the money and run to one of your aunt's cribs
And borrow a damn dress, and one of her blonde wigs
Tell her you need a place to stay
You'll be safe for days if you shave your legs with an aged razor blade

[Dr. Dre]
Yeah but if it all goes through like it's supposed to
The whole neighborhood knows you and they'll expose you
Think about it before you walk in the door first
Look at the store clerk, she's older than George Burns

[Eminem]
Fuck that! Do that shit! Shoot that bitch!
Can you afford to blow this shit Are you that rich
Why you give a fuck if she dies Are you that bitch
Do you really think she gives a fuck if you have kids

[Dr. Dre]
Man, don't do it, it's not worth it to risk it! (You're right!)
Not over this shit (Stop!) Drop the biscuit (I will!)
Don't even listen to Slim yo, he's bad for you
(You know what Dre I don't like your attitude..)

[sound of static]

("It's alright c'mon, just come in here for a minute")
("Mmm, I don't know!")
("Look baby..")
("Damn!")
("Yo, it's gonna be alright, right")
("Well OK..")

[announcer]
Meet Stan, twenty-one years old. ("Give me a kiss!")
After meeting a young girl at a rave party,
things start getting hot and heavy in an upstairs bedroom.
Once again, his conscience comes into play... ("Shit!")

[Eminem]
Now listen to me, while you're kissin her cheek
and smearin her lipstick, I slipped this in her drink
Now all you gotta do is nibble on this little bitch's earlobe..
(Yo! This girl's only fifteen years old
You shouldn't take advantage of her, that's not fair)
Yo, look at her bush.. does it got hair (Uh huh!)
Fuck this bitch right here on the spot bare
Til she passes out and she forgot how she got there
(Man, ain't you ever seen that one movie _Kids_)
No, but I seen the porno with SunDoobiest!
(Shit, you wanna get hauled off to jail)
Man fuck that, hit that shit raw dawg and bail..

[sound of static]
[pickup idling, radio playing]

[announcer]
Meet Grady, a twenty-nine year old construction worker.
After coming home from a hard day's work,
he walks in the door of his trailer park home
to find his wife in bed with another man.
("WHAT THE FUCK!!")
("Grady!!")

[Dr. Dre]
Alright calm down, relax, start breathin..

[Eminem]
Fuck that shit, you just caught this bitch cheatin
While you at work she's with some dude tryin to get off!
FUCK slittin her throat, CUT THIS BITCH'S HEAD OFF!!!

[Dr. Dre]
Wait! What if there's an explanation for this shit
(What She tripped Fell Landed on his dick!)
Alright Shady, maybe he's right Grady
But think about the baby before you get all crazy

[Eminem]
Okay! Thought about it, still wanna stab her
Grab her by the throat, get your daughter and kidnap her
That's what I did, be smart, don't be a retard
You gonna take advice from somebody who slapped DEE BARNES!

[Dr. Dre]
What'chu say (What's wrong Didn't think I'd remember)
I'ma kill you motherfucker!

[Eminem]
Uhhh-aahh! Temper temper!
Mr. Dre Mr. N.W.A.
Mr. AK comin' straight outta Compton y'all better make way
How in the fuck you gonna tell this man not to be violent

[Dr. Dre]
Cause he don't need to go the same route that I went
Been there, done that.. aw fuck it...
What am I sayin Shoot em both Grady, where's your gun at

[gun fires, is cocked, and re-fired]

Your mother, you fuckin faggot

La da da, da da da, da da (repeated)

Aiyo, this next song is dedicated to the memory of Erik Shrody
Rest in peace, we aint forget about you, you fuckin homo
We still remember

There once was a man who liked to jump around (jump around)
But he got too old to jump up and down (up and down)
(so then what happened?)
So he put the mic down and picked the guitar up (picked the guitar up)
(and then he what?)
Started singin the blues like there was no tommorrow (was no tommorrow)
(come on) Left his boys in the House of Pain (the House of Pain)
It was the wisest decision he ever made (ever made)
But the dumbest thing that he could ever do (could ever do)
Was try to buck a 380 on those that act shady
Tell me now what you gonna do (now what you gonna do)

[chorus]
Cause I remember all those years
How it was when you were here
I remember how it was, how it was when you were young
Yesterday was so long ago (long ago)
Kid Rock and Limp Bizkit came along now
Don't nobody wanna hear your old ass sing no more

I remember back when you had The Knack (had the knack)
And I remember when you had your first heart attack (heart attack)
I was right there laughin when I heard the news (heard the news)
I just wish the cardiac would'a murdered you (would'a murdered you)
(Damn) Maybe Ice-T's right, you are a bitch (you are a bitch)
(maybe he's right)
You come around when you're broke and you leave when you're rich
(leave when you're rich)
But the dumbest thing that you could ever do (that you could ever do)
Was try to buck a 380 on those that act shady
Tell me now what you gonna do (now what you gonna do)

[chorus]

yo (yo) yo (yo) yo (yo)
Remember back in '94, like right before Ms. Everlast was Whitey Ford
Before his heart attack had him on life support
When house of pain was out of fame like someone doused the flame
And they became destined to never jump around again
Or even further back, when i first had heard The Knack
And you were down with Syndicate, I went to get your shit, man
I was into it
But then you went and took your style and switched the shit
Now you sound rediculous you dickless piece of shit,
How could you diss me, bitch?
I liked you, thought you was alright for a white dude,
Remember Sway and Tech when I came up and sat beside you
Started rhymin, then you left the room
and didn't say goodbye or nothin?
Like you was mad that someone else was
White and tried to rhyme or somethin
I'm sorry man, I wasn't tryin to steal your light or nothin
But you're a homosexual, white rappin Irish {*Muslim*}
Man I wish I was Irish, I could be a {*Muslim*} too
Then I'd be confused as you, and I wouldn't know what to do
What's up with you?
I never fucked with you, why would you fuck with me?
Knowin I could rap circles around you, what, are you as nuts as me?
Plus I can sing better than you and I don't fuckin sing
And probably play guitar better, and I ain't never touched a string
But I ain't mad at you, I'd hate me too if I was you
I'm what you used to be, shit you was me in '92
So everytime I write a lyric, I'mma think of you
And maybe that will help me know what it's like to sing the blues

[chorus]x2

You fuckin punk, pussy, you fuckin faggot, sissy, fuck
And by the way, a 380's a fuckin sissy gun
If you're gonna shoot somebody use a fuckin real gun
You little bitch
Next time say my fuckin name in a song
Don't be subliminal about it
You wanna fuckin diss me, diss me you fuckin faggot
You fuckin punk, pussy, you fuckin little bitch, fuckin cunt

[Eminem]
Who came through with two glocks to terrorize your borough (huh)
Told you how to slap dicks and murder your girl (I did!)
Gave you all the finger and told you to sit and twirl
Sold a billion tapes and still screamed, "Fuck the world!"
(I'm Slim Shady..) so come and kill me while my name's hot
And shoot me twenty-five times in the same spot (Ow!)
I think I got a generation brainwashed
to pop pills and smoke pot til they brains rot (uhh-oh)
Stop they blood flow until they veins clot
I need a pain shot, and a shot of plain scotch
Purple haze and acid raindrops
Spike the punch at the party and drink pop (gulp gulp)
Shaved my armpits and wore a tank top
Bad Boy, I told you that I can't stop
You gotta make em fear you 'fore you make em feel you
So everybody buy my shit or I'ma come and kill you

I got mushrooms, I got acid, I got tabs and aspirin tablets
I'm your brother when you need, some good weed to set you free
You know me, I'm your friend, when you need a minithin
(I'm Slim Shady..) I'm Shady!!

[Eminem]
I like happy things, I'm really calm and peaceful (uh-huh huh)
I like birds, bees, I like people
I like funny things that make me happy and gleeful (hehehe)
like when my teacher sucked my wee-wee in preschool (Woo!)
The ill type, I stab myself with a steel spike
while I blow my brain out, just to see what it feels like
cause this is how I am in real life (mm-hmm)
I don't want to just die a normal death, I wanna be killed twice (uh-huh)
How you gonna scare somebody with a gun threat
when they high off of drugs they haven't even done yet (Huh)
So bring the money by tonight - cause your wife
said this the biggest knife she ever saw in her life (Help me! Help me!)
I try to keep it positive and play it cool
Shoot up the playground and tell the kids to stay in school (Stay in school!)
Cause I'm the one they can relate to and look up to better
Tonight I think I'll write my biggest fan a fuck you letter

I got mushrooms, I got acid, I got tabs and aspirin tablets
I'm your brother when you need, some good weed to set you free
You know me, I'm your friend, when you need a minithin
(I'm Slim Shady..) I'm Shady!!

[Eminem]
Yo.. I listen to your demo tape and act like I don't like it
(Aww that shit is wack!)
Six months later you hear your lyrics on my shit
(What That's my shit!)
People don't buy shit no more they just dub it
That's why I'm still broke and had the number one club hit (Yup, uh huh)
But they love it when you make your business public
so fuck it, I've got herpes while we on the subject (uh-huh)
And if I told you I had AIDS y'all would play it
cause you stupid motherfuckers think I'm playin when I say it
-- Well, I do take pills, don't do speed
Don't do crack (uh-uhh) don't do coke, I do smoke weed (uh-huh)
Don't do smack, I do do shrooms, do drink beer (yup)
I just wanna make a few things clear
My baby mama's not dead (uh-uhh) she's still alive and bitchin (yup)
And I don't have herpes, my dick's just itchin
It's not syphilis, and as for being AIDS infested
I don't know yet, I'm too scared to get tested

I got mushrooms, I got acid, I got tabs and aspirin tablets
I'm your brother when you need, some good weed to set you free
You know me, I'm your friend, when you need a minithin
(I'm Slim Shady..) I'm Shady!!
(Ha hah-ha, ha! Ha hah, hah..) I told you I was Shady!!
(Ha hah-ha, hah-ha! Ha hah, hah-ha, hah-ha, hah-ha)
Y'all didn't wanna believe me!
I'm Shady!!
.. And that's my name

(feat. Proof of D-12)

[Eminem]
Are we supposed to shut up or talk...I'll cut your butt up and walk...
Around with my ass showing all over the fuckin town

[Proof]
....Then You get done up in chalk
Yo....

[Eminem]
We ready...we ready .. we ready.. we ready
Ready to hold it steady....Speakin of hold it steady....
You can hold my nuts steady and then....
I can stick my dick in you like a machette...If you're a girl...
If you're a girl then you're my world...And I will kill anybody...
That means... you, her or him
It doesnt matter cuz I'm Eminem
And I'm Slim...I'm also slim and your future's Whim

[Proof]
Ha ha....don't stop
D-12 y'all...yea we bust it off the top
We get in that ass Preparation-H style
Knock more boots than that group H-Town (Booo!)
Everybody tryina tell us to wait now
You look dumb as fuck...Like Puffy in his video on that breakdown (hahaha)
Tryin to dance around
How the fuck it feel lock in hand set now
Sever your style .. Divide and Parish
Part ish...when my cart is bustin thru this...
Wassup to Bizzare Kid
Targets get hit and liftoff
Here it is we bout to rip off
Lick shots...no time...we gettin dick snot
Emzy...

[Eminem]
Speakin of lift off....
I'm blastin off...your ass is soft...so I'm startin to jack off
Cuz I'm so horny...and your lyrics are so corny
That they bore me and I woke up too late this morning
Or too early...wait a minute there goes Shirley...
The girly I fucked last year when her hair was curly
Couldnt remember it cuz I was Infinite
And I met ken Kaniff in Connecticut
He said his predicits and pronouns and wanted to throw down
And he said òÀÜI like youòÀÝ...and then he walked up and said òÀÜ let me snake bite
youòÀÝ
And I said hell no...kicked him with my shell toe...
Gave him a elbow...Ayo Proof ...go....

[Proof]
Yo it's the D to the 1 - 2
What you wanna get done to...
Your chest plate...eradicate
Get your flesh ate...easily done..Here it is...
Freestyle...no need to write shit...cuz when we write shit
Y'all like to bite shit...that why street light up when we write stuff
It's time to be the champions at this...it's D-12
1-2 True crew...Slim Shady and Big proof
Knockin over Igloos in Alaska when we blast ya
A massacre creator, one time for data
Darker than Vader...go anybody hot as the equator
It's time to get down one time for those that dont know us
Girls wanna blow us like Monica....Lewinsky
Come against me...

[Eminem]
Go and see I'm an invincible Mc
If you dont believe it then you wanna try to convince me
That you're doper than me...which we'll hope
You would hope to be....but hopefully I will rock globaly
And nationwide...thats why my ass is wide
Thats why your ass just died on the passanger side...
Like a fuckin ride...when it got shot up by a drive by
When I drove by 5 times and gave it five tries
And still missed it
I got a fuckin mental illness a gentle stillness...
Violence...complete silence is what I need in the room while I freestyle
What I need is to do...what is need is smoke weed and brew
And......smoke brew You don't smoke brew...
If you do I'll choke you and then I garauntee I'll out smoke you
You're crew's a joke too and i can stick my dick in a bitch and poke you....

[Proof]
Stick it in there....rock with my cock on sky rock
Knock ya eye out the sock...(sock)
Get..(get) yeah we come to rock....(it)
So don't get in the way cuz we gon drop....(shit)
Now how you feel right now we bust yo..op....(tic)....(tock)
We lunatics with mics and we dont stop we come to rock
The dirty dozen is non-stop..
To the top from tree tops to ewoks that pop Reeboks
And men with pre-ops
Yo now there is 3-Pac's
Master P....Thug Life and now it's 2pac
Get back to that one...here goes the rhyme that you dropped...

[Eminem]
The rhyme that I dropped is stickin up IHOP
In high tops and walking around like a one eyed Cyclops
And you can't see me....I only got one eye and I can still see you
You can even give it a dumb try...If you're a dumb guy then come try this
But I rock the microphone with my flyness
So get off my jock..get of my cock..when I sky rock ...it in sky
rock..shit...bitch

[Proof]
Ayo...a lot of people always try to tell us...that we gona be better or
failrues
But me or slim yo you cant tell me...
You try to freestyle son we gon put these verses on your Lp
Slow down with that old stuff....I heard the most of y'all is Mos Def

[Eminem]
My Lp...my whole Lp...tha last one was screaming help me
You couldnt melt me if you was Vanilla Ice...Yo guess what....
My Nuuuuuuuuutz
Here I go with the lyrical miracle...spiritual spirital...you dont wanna hear
it tho
I rickety rock the micrphone
Don't do it dont do it cuz that shit is stupid...I knew it
I take a beat and loop it...i take a beat and troop it
What the fuck did that mean...I dont know but i got phat jeans on
And I already said that but I dont know where my head's at
All I wanna do is go back to the hotel and know where my bed's at

[Proof]
yo wheres the beds at so we can relax and catch Ease
Y'all dont want none of tha dirty Deez
>From the 3-1 its for the three of thirds
One third Mc yo we smoke y'all like herbs
Under the curb early morn take it to born
Y'all get broke up...put back together ...re-enacment
Some times you see this...you just a faggot
No need to tag it...wit more loot that Jimmy Swagart

[Eminem]
Faggot....uh oh...was that homophobic...
But no one knows it...and I'm so homophobic
I wont even throw clothes in the Closet
Fuck it...I've lost it....I'm holocausted...see my face it's written all
acrossed it
This beer makes me wanna disappear this year
I'm so high I'm bout to die...and I'm so tired I'm bout to fry
You're so fired you're down

[Proof]
Hey....it's me...it's the hamster man...
Coming all the way from Amsterdam....
And I come to tell you all a little secret.....
So you can ........eat it ....you got to grab your crackers
{mumbling}

[Eminem]
Quit spittin your writ shit bitch I'll kill you and kick you
In your motherfuckin dick and your clit...you little pussy
Hermaphardite with no apettite
And you aint rappin right but you was taking rapid bites
Of my dick when you was on it...my brain is haunted
I walk up in a place in a t shirt wit my stains on it
But i dont give a damn...give a fuck...give a shit...give a hell
give a piss give a dick give a lick

[Proof]
Yea....live and direct it's us
You better back up...

[Eminem]
You better back up before I jack off
Back off before I jack off

[Proof]
You better back off before he jack off (laughing)
You better back off before I jack off

[Eminem]
Colder than Jack Frost...smack you across your face
While I'm still jackin off
Sittin in the closet beatin my shit
Aint got nuttin else to do cuz I'm thinkin of a bitch
Wait a minute ...oh shit she's here...
Look who walked in the door....come in it's Britney Spears
(Ken Kaniff)
Oh....come here little girl
come here little girl

[Eminem]
What happened (I dunno)
We stopped rappin (Oh it's Clappin)
Gun clappin...and all I need is one napkin to wipe the cum off
When I come off with the drum off
Whatever the hell that meant...but I can still speak wit a accent
A french accent Excuse my french but
Suck my dick touche le le poo...uhh....bitch

[Proof]
Bonjuor...I'm here with the cure...Oh yea lets rock it for the drawer
Hey Em...how you doin this is me...The Em jock...get off my...
Damn cock .....laughing....

Look, if you had one shot, one opportunity
To seize everything you ever wanted-One moment
Would you capture it or just let it slip

His palms are sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy
There's vomit on his sweater already, mom's spaghetti
He's nervous, but on the surface he looks calm and ready
To drop bombs, but he keeps on forgettin
What he wrote down, the whole crowd goes so loud
He opens his mouth, but the words won't come out
He's chokin, how everybody's jokin now
The clock's run out, time's up over, bloah!
Snap back to reality, Oh there goes gravity
Oh, there goes Rabbit, he choked
He's so mad, but he won't give up that
Is he No
He won't have it , he knows his whole back city's ropes
It don't matter, he's dope
He knows that, but he's broke
He's so stacked that he knows
When he goes back to his mobile home, that's when it's
Back to the lab again yo
This whole rap shit
He better go capture this moment and hope it don't pass him

[Hook:]
You better lose yourself in the music, the moment
You own it, you better never let it go
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime yo

The soul's escaping, through this hole that it's gaping
This world is mine for the taking
Make me king, as we move toward a, new world order
A normal life is borin, but superstardom's close to post mortar
It only grows harder, only grows hotter
He blows us all over these hoes is all on him
Coast to coast shows, he's know as the globetrotter
Lonely roads, God only knows
He's grown farther from home, he's no father
He goes home and barely knows his own daughter
But hold your nose cuz here goes the cold water
His hoes don't want him no mo, he's cold product
They moved on to the next schmoe who flows
He nose dove and sold nada
So the soap opera is told and unfolds
I suppose it's old potna, but the beat goes on
Da da dum da dum da da

[Hook]

No more games, I'ma change what you call rage
Tear this mothafuckin roof off like 2 dogs caged
I was playin in the beginnin, the mood all changed
I been chewed up and spit out and booed off stage
But I kept rhymin and stepwritin the next cypher
Best believe somebody's payin the pied piper
All the pain inside amplified by the fact
That I can't get by with my 9 to 5
And I can't provide the right type of life for my family
Cuz man, these goddam food stamps don't buy diapers
And it's no movie, there's no Mekhi Phifer, this is my life
And these times are so hard and it's getting even harder
Tryin to feed and water my seed, plus
See dishonor caught up bein a father and a prima donna
Baby mama drama's screamin on and
Too much for me to wanna
Stay in one spot, another jam or not
Has gotten me to the point, I'm like a snail
I've got to formulate a plot fore I end up in jail or shot
Success is my only mothafuckin option, failure's not
Mom, I love you, but this trail has got to go
I cannot grow old in Salem's lot
So here I go is my shot.
Feet fail me not cuz maybe the only opportunity that I got

[Hook]

You can do anything you set your mind to, man

Look, if you had one shot, one opportunity
To seize everything you ever wanted-One moment
Would you capture it or just let it slip

His palms are sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy
There's vomit on his sweater already, mom's spaghetti
He's nervous, but on the surface he looks calm and ready
To drop bombs, but he keeps on forgettin
What he wrote down, the whole crowd goes so loud
He opens his mouth, but the words won't come out
He's chokin, how everybody's jokin now
The clock's run out, time's up over, bloah!
Snap back to reality, Oh there goes gravity
Oh, there goes Rabbit, he choked
He's so mad, but he won't give up that
Is he No
He won't have it , he knows his whole back city's ropes
It don't matter, he's dope
He knows that, but he's broke
He's so stacked that he knows
When he goes back to his mobile home, that's when it's
Back to the lab again yo
This whole rap shit
He better go capture this moment and hope it don't pass him

[Hook:]
You better lose yourself in the music, the moment
You own it, you better never let it go
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime yo

The soul's escaping, through this hole that it's gaping
This world is mine for the taking
Make me king, as we move toward a, new world order
A normal life is borin, but superstardom's close to post mortar
It only grows harder, only grows hotter
He blows us all over these hoes is all on him
Coast to coast shows, he's know as the globetrotter
Lonely roads, God only knows
He's grown farther from home, he's no father
He goes home and barely knows his own daughter
But hold your nose cuz here goes the cold water
His hoes don't want him no mo, he's cold product
They moved on to the next schmoe who flows
He nose dove and sold nada
So the soap opera is told and unfolds
I suppose it's old potna, but the beat goes on
Da da dum da dum da da

[Hook]

No more games, I'ma change what you call rage
Tear this mothafuckin roof off like 2 dogs caged
I was playin in the beginnin, the mood all changed
I been chewed up and spit out and booed off stage
But I kept rhymin and stepwritin the next cypher
Best believe somebody's payin the pied piper
All the pain inside amplified by the fact
That I can't get by with my 9 to 5
And I can't provide the right type of life for my family
Cuz man, these goddam food stamps don't buy diapers
And it's no movie, there's no Mekhi Phifer, this is my life
And these times are so hard and it's getting even harder
Tryin to feed and water my seed, plus
See dishonor caught up bein a father and a prima donna
Baby mama drama's screamin on and
Too much for me to wanna
Stay in one spot, another jam or not
Has gotten me to the point, I'm like a snail
I've got to formulate a plot fore I end up in jail or shot
Success is my only mothafuckin option, failure's not
Mom, I love you, but this trail has got to go
I cannot grow old in Salem's lot
So here I go is my shot.
Feet fail me not cuz maybe the only opportunity that I got

[Hook]

You can do anything you set your mind to, man

[Eminem does the voices of all characters in the song]

[G - Eminem as Susan (the girl)]
[D - Eminem as Dave]
[J - Eminem as John]

[Chorus: repeat 2X]

I never meant to give you mushrooms girl
I never meant to bring you to my world
Now you sitting in the corner crying
And now it's my fault my fault

[Eminem]
I went to John's rave with Ron and Dave
And met a new wave blonde babe with half of her head shaved
A nurse aid who came to get laid and tied up
with first aid tape and raped on the first date
Susan -- an ex-heroin addict who just stoped usin.was into bosse and
alternative music. told me she was about to use it agzin. I said wiat first
try this hallucionagin, its better than heroin and the the booze and the gin.
come here lets go in here. Who's in the den (It's me and Kelly) my bad! lets
try another room "I don't trust you" shut up slut chew up this mushroom. this
will get you in touch with your roots. We'll get bare-foot but naked and run
in the woods. "oh hell might as well try 'em this party is so drag." Oh dag I
didn't mean for you to eat the whole bag! (huh)
[Chorus:]
[1st repeat Em says "I'm sorry!" at the end]
[2nd repeat same as original Chorus]

"Yo Sue!"
[G] Get away from me, I don't know you
Oh shoot, she's tripping..
[G] I need to go puke!! (Bleahh!)
I wasn't tryin to turn this into somethin major
I just wanted to make you appreciate nature.
Susan stop crying i don't hate ya. the worlds not against you I'm sorry your
father raped ya. So what, you had your poochie in your dad's mouth. Thats no
reason to start wiggin and spaz out.
she said "Help me I think I'm having a seisure!"
I said "I'm high too (bitch) Quit grabbin my T-shirt (let go!)
Would you calm down you're startin to scare me.
she said " I'm twenty-six years old and I'm not married. I don't have any
kids and I can't cook"
I'm over here Sue, (hi) you're talkin to the plant, look!
We need to get to a hospital 'fore it's too late
Cause I never seen no-one eat as many shrooms as you ate.

[Chorus:]
[1st repeat Em says "Whoops!" after first line and "It was an accident!" at the end]
[2nd repeat same as original Chorus]
Susan (wait!) Where you goin You better be careful
[G] Leave me alone dad, I'm sick of gettin my hair pulled
I'm not your dad, quit tryin to swallow your tongue
Want some gum Put down the scissors, 'fore you do somethin dumb
I'll be right back just chill baby please
I gotta go find Dave he's the one who gave me these.
"John, where's Dave at before I bash you"
[J] He's in the bathroom; I think he's takin a crap dude!
"Dave! Pull up your pants, we need an ambulance
There's a girl upstairs talkin to plants
choppin her hair off, and there's only two days left
of Spring Break, how long do these things take to wear off"
[D] Well it depends on how many you had I took three she ate the other
twenty-two caps Now she's upstairs cryin out her eyeballs,drinking lysol.
"She's gonna die dude." I know and it's my fault!
My god!
[Chorus:]
[1st repeat Em says "I'm sorry!" after second line and "What do I do" at the end]
[2nd repeat same as original Chorus]
My God, I'm so sorry!
I'm so sorry! Susan please wake up!
Please! Please wake up!! What are you doing!
You're not dead!! You're NOT dead!
I know you're not dead!

(Eminem Speaking)
Most people don't see how much work is really involved
in this rap shit
I didn't know it
I didn't see it
I never saw it until i was actually in it
You really gotta be in it
To understand what its like
But you always gotta
People always gotta see your smile
You always gotta put on that fake
You know what i'm sayin
No matter what u just been through

(B-Real)
So you wanna be a rap superstar
And live large a big house
5 cars, you're in charge
Comin up in the world
Don't trust nobody
Gotta look over your shoulder constantly

(B-Real)
I remember the days when i was a young kid growin up
Lookin in the mirror dreamin about blowin up
To rock crowds make money
Chill wit the honies
Sign autographs and whatever the people want from me
Shits funny
How impossible cream manifest in the games that be comin with it
Never the less you gotta go for the gusto
But you don't know about the blood sweat and tears
and losin some of your peers
And losin some of your self
Music has past gone by
Hopefully you don't manifest for the wrong guy
Egomaniac in the brainiac
Don't know how to act
Shits deep
48 tracks
Studio gangsta mack
Sign a deal emcees wanna make a mill
But never will
Till he crosses over still
Feelin no hate
But fantasies come wit these
Just to sacrifice the taste of makin cheese
You wanna be a rap superstar in the biz
And take shit from people who don't know what it is
I wish it was all fun and games
But the price of fame is high
And some can't pay to play
Trapped in what you rappin about
Tell me what happened when you lost clout
The rout you took started collapsing
No fans
No fame
No respect
No change
No women
And everyone shits on your name

(Chorus)
So you wanna be a rap superstar
And live large
A big house
5 cars
The rent charged
Comin up in the world don't trust nobody
Gotta look over your shoulder constantly
To be a rap superstar
And live large
A big house
5 cars
The rent charged
Comin up in the world don't trust nobody
Gotta look over your shoulder constantly

(Noreaga Speaking)
When you sign to a record label
You don't know you sign your life over
And these Witheboys don't care about you
Cuz the minute you fall off
They'll find another Noreaga
And they'll find another Capone-n-Noreaga
And they'll find another B-Real
So you need to just keep
Stack your chips up
Do what you gotta do while your hot
And mafuckin get out the game
Stick to the drug game
And the drug game is even worse
Because if someone jerks you
You can shoot em and kill me
But in this game if someone jerks you
You gotta be humble

(Eminem Speaking)
No matter what you just been through
Shit has gotta be right
You gotta approach people
You gotta be on the up and up
And everything gotta be all good
When you see someone slap hands with em
You know what i'm sayin give em a pound
Or whatever it is
But you always gotta act like it ain't shit

(Chorus)

(B-Real)
My own son don't know me
Sittin up in the hotel room lonley
But I thank god I'm wit my homies
But sometimes I wish I was back home
But only no radio or videos
Cuz they show me no love
The phony gotta hit the road slowly
So the record gets pushed by sony
I'm in the middle like monie
And the press say that
My own people disowned me
And the best way back
Is to keep your head straight
Never inflate the cranium
Your crew worried about them honies at the paladium
Who just wanna cling on swing on
And so on and go on and fall off
The hoes fall off
To the next rap superstar
Wit no shame give him a year
And they'll be right out the game
The same as the last one
Who came before him
Gained fame
Started gettin ignored
I warned him
Assured him
This ain't easy take it from weezy
Sleezy people wanna be cheesey
They talkin evil

(Chorus)

Somedays I just wanna up and call the quits
I feel like I'm surrounded by a wall of bricks
Everytime I go to get up I just fall in pits
My life's like one great big ball of shit!
If I could, just put it all onto what I spit
Instead of always tryina swallow it
Instead of starin' at this wall and shit
While I sit writin' this plot, sick of all this shit
Kid, Call it Shit!
All I know is I'm about to hit the wall
If I ever have to see another one of Mom's alcaholic fits
This is it last straw
That's all, That's it
I ain't dealin' with another fuckin' politic
I'm like a skillet bubblin', until it filters up
I'm about to kill it, I can fill it buildin' up
Blow this buliding up, I've been sealed enough
My cup, When its over I'da filled it up
Then it explodes, and spills my guts
You think all I do is stand here and feel my nuts
Well.. Imma show you what, You gon' feel my rush
If you don't feel it, then it must be too real to touch
Build the dutch, Im about to tear shit up
Goosebumps, Yea Imma make your hair sit up, Yea sit up
Imma tell you who I be, Imma make you hate me, Cuz you ain't me
You ate, it ain't too late for you to finally see
What you close-minded Fucks, What you Blind to see
Whoever finds me is gonna get a finders fee
Out this world, they no it ain't a mind to me
You need piece of mind Here's a piece of mine
All I need's a line, Sometimes I don't always find the words to rhyme
To express how I'm really feeling at that time, Yes
Sometimes, Sometimes, Sometimes
Its just sometimes is always me
How dark can these hallways be
The clock strikes midnight
1, 2, then half passed 3
This half-ass rhyme, with this half-ass piece of paper
I'm desperate in my task
If I could just get the rest of this shit off my chest, Again
Stuck in this slump, Can't think of nothing
Fuck, I'm stumped, Oh Wait Here comes something, No!
Its not good enough, scribble it out
New pad, crinkle it up, and throw the shit out
I'm fizzling out, thought I figured it out
Balls in my court but I'm scared to dribble it out
I'm afraid, but why am I afraid Why am I a slave
To this Tray Sign not to spit to the grave
Real enough to route you up, Want me to flip it I can rip it
any style you want. Imma switch to the bitch Jimmy Smith aint a quitter
Imma sitter till I get enough finally hit a boiling point
Put some oil in your joints, Flip the coin, Bitch come get destroyed
And MC's worst dream, I make them tensed, they hate me
See me and Shape like a Chainlink fence
By the looks of em you would swear that Jaws was coming
By the screams of them you would swear Im sawin someone
By the way they runnin', you could swear that the law was coming
Its now or never, And tonight is all or nothing
Momma, Jimmy keeps leaving on us, He said he'd be back
He pinky promised, I don't think he's honest
I'll be back baby, I just gotta beat this clock
Fuck this clock! Imma make them Eat this watch
Don't believe me Watch! Imma win this race
And Imma come back and rub my shit on your face, Bitch!
I found my nitch, You gonna fear my voice
Till your SICK of it you ain't gonna have a choice
If I gotta scream till I have half a lung
If I have have a chance, Imma grab it, Rabbit Run!

[Eminem]
A lot of people ask me.. am I afraid of death..
Hell yeah I'm afraid of death
I don't want to die yet
A lot of people think.. that I worship the devil..
that I do all types of.. retarded shit
Look, I can't change the way I think
And I can't change the way I am
But if I offended you Good
Cause I still don't give a fuck

I'm zonin off of one joint, stoppin a limo
Hopped in the window, shoppin a demo at gunpoint
A lyricist without a clue, what year is this
Fuck a needle, here's a sword, bodypierce with this
Livin amuk, never givin a fuck
Gimme the keys I'm drunk, and I've never driven a truck
But I smoke dope in a cab
I'll stab you with the sharpest knife I can grab
Come back the next week and re-open your scab (YEAH!)
A killer instinct runs in the blood
Emptyin full clips and buryin guns in the mud
I've calmed down now -- I was heavy once into drugs
I could walk around straight for two months with a buzz
My brain's gone, my soul's worn and my spirit is torn
The rest of my body's still bein operated on
I'm ducked the fuck down while I'm writin this rhyme
Cause I'm probably gonna get struck with lightnin this time

[Chorus:]

For all the weed that I've smoked - yo this blunt's for you
To all the people I've offended - yeah fuck you too!
To all the friends I used to have - yo I miss my past
But the rest of you assholes can KISS MY ASS
For all the drugs that I've done - yo I'm still gon' do
To all the people I've offended - yeah fuck you too!
For everytime I reminisce - yo I miss my past
But I still don't give a fuck, y'all can KISS MY ASS

[Eminem]
I walked into a gunfight with a knife to kill you
And cut you so fast when your blood spilled it was still blue
I'll hang you til you dangle and chain you with both ankles
And pull you apart from both angles
I wanna crush your skull til your brains leaks out of your veins
And bust open like broken water mains
So tell Saddam not to bother with makin another bomb
Cause I'm crushin the whole world in my palm
Got your girl on my arm and I'm armed with a firearm
So big my entire arm is a giant firebomb
Buy your mom a shirt with a Slim Shady iron-on
And the pants to match ("Here momma try em on")
I get imaginative with a mouth full of adjectives,
a brain full of adverbs, and a box full of laxatives
(Shittin on rappers) Causin hospital accidents
God help me before I commit some irresponsible acts again

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
I wanted an album so rugged nobody could touch it
Spend a million a track and went over my budget (Ohh shit!)
Now how in the fuck am I supposed to get out of debt
I can't rap anymore - I just murdered the alphabet
Drug sickness got me doin some bugged twitches
I'm withdrawn from crack so bad my blood itches
I don't rap to get the women - fuck bitches
Give me a fat slut that cooks and does dishes
Never ran with a click - I'm a posse
Kamikaze, strappin a motherfuckin bomb across me
From the second I was born, my momma lost me
I'm a cross between Manson, Esham and Ozzy
I don't know why the fuck I'm here in the first place
My worst day on this earth was my first birthday
Retarded What did that nurse say Brain damage
Fuck, I was born during the earthquake

[Chorus]

Psst... hey, listen!
Lalalalala! I love my job. Whoo! Makes me feel like Superman!
Can you fly I can. Wanna see

[Chorus]
I'm only entertaining you
My goal is to stimulate, making you high
And take you and I
To a place you can't see
But I believe you can fly
I don't mean nobody harm, I'm just partying
I'm not your dad, not your mom, not your guardian
Just a man who's on the mic
So let me entertain you...

[Eminem]
My lyrical content is constantly under fire
No wonder why I constantly bomb back
To combat attacks with constant concepts
When lyrics are constantly took outta context
Failure to communicate with congress has
Been a problem for the longest, I guess
But maybe one day we can make some progress
Food for thought - see how long it takes to digest
Feeling good when I should be ashamed
Sh*t, I really should've fell but I stood
See I came like a flame in the night
Like a ghost in the dark; there's a ray, there's a light
There's a hope, there's a spark
But when planets collide they'll never see eye to eye
Until they decide to set their differences aside
And this is why only one of us will survive
So children follow my lead and feel the vibe, cause

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
My music can be slightly amusing
You shouldn't take lyrics so serious, it might be confusing
Just trying to seperate the truth from entertainment
It's stupid, ain't it I get sick of trying to explain it
See I could sit and argue with you but it goes beyond
Just being a snot, pointy-nosed bleach-blond
Cause I came here to uplift; let your woes be gone,
Tell 'em to get fu*ked and just mosie on
Constantly moving, constantly using the constitution
As a form of restitution
Bless the children, nothing less than brilliant
Let me entertain you like Robbie Williams
I'll be here when y'all are gone, rebuilding,
World revolving, still evolving, still Slim
How many kids'll copy Probably millions,
But I'ma do this as a fu*king hobby till then, cause

[Chorus]

[Eminem]
My lyrical content contains subject matter
That sucks up all these fu*ked up young kids
At an alarming rate; common denominate
Add it up and you'll see just why I dominate
I try to stimulate but kids emulate,
And mimmick every move you make - "Slim, you great!"
But wait, can't you see I'm only here to entertain
I gotta be the one to go against the grain
Cause man, I see it, feel it, live it, but it's inhumane
For me to see you be influenced but pretend you ain't
But they don't understand that I've been through pain
If you get to know me I could be a friend you gain
But you can't just stand there and try to judge
It hurts but you're jealousy probably tears you up inside as much
And it's such a pleasure, every button that I touch
I treasure every glutton that I punish in my lust, but

[Chorus]

[Phish] What's the difference between me and you? (repeat 2X)

[Dr. Dre]
Back when Cube - was rollin wit Lorenzo in a Benzo
I was bangin wit a gang of instrumentals
Got the pens and pencils, got down to business; but sometimes
the business end of this shit can turn your friends against you
But you was a real nigga, I could sense it in you
I still remember the window of the car that you went through
That's fucked up, but I'll never forget the shit we been through
And I'ma do whatever it takes to convince you
Cuz you my nigga Doc, and Eazy I'm still wit you
Fuck the beef, nigga I miss you, and that's just bein real wit you
You see the truth is
Everybody wanna know how close me and Snoop is
And who I'm still cool wit
Then I got these fake-ass niggaz I first drew with
Claimin that they non-violent, talkin like they *voice sample*
Spit venom in interviews, speakin on reunions
Move units, then talk shit and we can do this
Until then - I ain't even speakin your name
Just keep my name outta yo' mouth and we can keep it the same
Nigga, it ain't that I'm too big to listen to the rumors
It's just that I'm too damn big to pay attention to 'em
That's the difference

Chorus: Phish (repeat 2X)

What's the difference between me and you?
You talk a good one - but you don't do what you supposed to do
I act on what I feel and never deal wit emotions
I'm used to livin big dog style and straight coastin

[Xzibit]
Yo I stay wit it
While you try to perpetrate, play wit it
Never knew about the next level until Dre did it (YEAH)
I stay committed while you motherfuckers baby-sitted
I smash you critics like a overhand right from Riddick
(Yeah!) Come and get it, shitted on villians by the millions
I be catchin bitches while bitches be catchin feelings
So what the fuck am I supposed to do?
I pop bottles and hot hollow-points at each and all of you (Come on!)
A heartless bastard, high and plastered
My style is like the reaction from too much acid - never come down
Pass it around if you can't handle it
Hang Hollywood niggaz by they Soul Train laminates
What's the difference between me and you? (What?)
About five back accounts, three ounces and two vehicles
Until my death, I'm Bangladesh
I suggest you hold yo' breath til ain't none left
Yo that's the difference

Chorus

[Eminem]
Aight, hold up hold up!
STOP THE BEAT A MINUTE!! I got somethin to say
Dre; I wanna tell you this shit right now while this fuckin weed is in me
(The fuck?!) I don't know if I ever told you this, but I love you dawg
I got your motherfuckin back, just know this shit

[Dre] Riiight? .. Slim, I don't know if you noticed it
But I've had your back from day one, nigga let's blow this bitch
[Em] I mean it dawg, you ever need somebody offed - who's throat is it?
[Dre] Well if you ever kill that Kim bitch, I'll show you where the ocean is

[Eminem]
Well that's cool, and I appreciate the offer
But if I do decide to really murder my daughter's momma
I'ma sit her up in the front seat and put sunglasses on her
And cruise around wit her for seven hours through California
And have her wavin at people (Hi!) Then drop her off on the corner
at the police station and drive off honkin the horn for her
Raw dawg, get your arm gnawed off
Drop the sawed off and beat you wit the piece it was sawed off of
Fuck blood, I wanna see some lungs coughed up
Get shot up in the hot tub til the bubbles pop up
and they nose and cough snot up, mucus in hot water
That's for tryin to talk like The Chronic was lost product
That's for even THINKIN of havin them thoughts thought up!
You better show some respect whenever the Doc's brought up!!
So what's the difference between us? We can start at the penis
Or we can scream, "I Just Don't Give a Fuck," and see who means it!

Chorus 1.25X

(scratched) (3X):
"No...you hear me! You go to hell" -> Mr. Garrison

[Eminem]
Yo
At birth I was born with the biggest middle finger on earth
The first time I went to stick it up the shit hurt
Moms wouldn't take it, the bitch still hates me
One day she said, "Go rake leaves," I said, "Make me!"
I'm proud to announce i was probably the first kid
Who was kicked out of his house for making fart sounds with his mouth
Arguing with me and mom was on-going
She called law enforcement when I broke the law mower
The slut gave me a truck when I turned sixteen
I went to start it and it screamed, "Please fix me!"
Back then, when Will Smith was still the Fresh Prince
And him and Jeff were still best friends, I guess then
I decided to cut class to rap full time
And get the fuck outta the fake school and rhyme
Anybody who thinks this fuckin attitude is a gimmick
Come and see me, see if I don't live up to this image
Break shit!

(scratched) (4X):
"No...you hear me! You go to hell!"

[Parl Yams]
Yo, y'all rappers have never learned
That's why I'm fuckin wit y'all
Run around telling niggas they can fuck wit Parl
I bring it to your high school, smoke the prom
Put your brother in an air lock, choke your mom
Cause any horror like a play off loss in game seven
Walk around ripping on niggas madder than James Evans
My left hand's sharp it moves freestyle ultra
Slap my dick like Kool Keith
Fuck like you stole from me, and rules the streets
I don't wanna have to fuck you up, so cool cease
Parl Yams be the chosen thug
What i spit be cold juice like a fruitful hug
Run the streets while you're stuck at home
My temper life bushwick bill fucker leave me the fuck alone
I've been jealous since niggas was windmillin'
These cats just started to rhyme, my pen's spillin'
And moms just told me to act, i've been wheelin'
So boy just slow your deck, i've been stealin'
I wet rappers cause it's me and Em
I guess I just ain't give a fuck like Eminem
Burglarize take busts with the slugs
Come in your window like (? ? ?) and bustin' your club
Put the heat up I teach them niggaz what to suck
And my young lords, when to stand up and light the Dutch

(scratched) (4X):
"No...you hear me! You go to hell!"

[Eminem]
I ended my last show with a horse swingin' a lasso
Drunk with the asshole ripped out of an old bathrobe
Cause I don't give a fuck, you better understand that
Two Zantacs I give a fuck if I sound whack
Billboard, drugs is what I kill for
I'm Happy Gilmore, you slip me anything in pill form
I'm in to mingle but I plan to stay single
Play bingo and drink, get old and watch my face wrinkle
Sike, I'm 24 Thursday; six more birthdays
and I'm blowin my brains out when I'm thirty
As long as my heart beats I'ma keep tryin to see
How much speed I can eat before I fall the fuck asleep
So "I'm the Rapper, He's the DJ"
I'm the one thats got the six year old nephew screamin "F/U/C/K"
So Jeff, give me a scratch (scratched: "No!")
Y'all can kiss my ass until your lips stick to my pants

(scratched) (5X):
"No...you hear me! You go to hell!"

(feat. Bizarre (D-12))

(kill kill kill)
Dahh-dum, dahh-dum.. dum
Dahh-dum, dahh-dum, duh-da-da-da-da
(kill kill kill)
Dahh-dum, dahh-dum.. dum
Dahh-dum, dahh-dum, dumm..
(kill kill kill)

[Chorus: Eminem]

Mentally illll from Amityvilllle (ILLLL)
Accidentally killll your family stillll
Thinkin he won't God-damnit he willll (HE'SSSS)
Mentally illll from Amityvilllle
[{HE'SSSS} - on repeats only]

[Eminem]
I get lifted and spin til I'm half-twisted
Feet planted and stand with a grin full of chapped lipstick {*SMACK*}
Pen full of ink, think sinful and rap sick shit
Shrink pencil me in for my last visit
Drink gin til my chin's full of splashed whiskers {*whoosh*}
Hash whiskey and ash til I slap bitches {*smack*}
Ask Bizzy, he's been here the past six years
Mash with me you'll get in imagine this

[Chorus 2X]

[Bizarre]
I fucked my cousin in his asshole, slit my mother's throat
{*AHHHHHHHH!*} Guess who Slim Shady just signed to Interscope
My little sister's birthday, she'll remember me
For a gift I had ten of my boys take her virginity
{*Mmm mm mmm!*} And bitches know me as a horny ass freak
Their mother wasn't raped, I ate her pussy while she was 'sleep
Pissy-drunk, throwin up in the urinal (YOU FUCKIN HOMO!)
That's what I said at my dad's funeral

[Chorus 2X]

[Eminem]
That's why the city is filled with a bunch of fuckin idiots still (still)
That's why the first motherfucker poppin some shit he gets killed (killed)
That's why we don't call it Detroit, we call it Amityville ('Ville)
You can get capped after just havin a cavity filled (filled)
Ahahahaha, that's why we're crowned the murder capital still (still)
This ain't Detroit, this is motherfuckin Hamburger Hill! (Hill!)
We don't do drivebys, we park in front of houses and shoot
and when the police come we fuckin shoot it out with them too!
That's the mentality here (here) that's the reality here (here)
Did I just hear somebody say they wanna challenge me here (huh)
While I'm holdin a pistol with this many calibres here (here)
Got some registration and just made this shit valid this year (year)
Cause once I snap I can't be held accountable for my acts
and that's when accidents happen,
when a thousand bullets come at your house
and collapse the foundation around and they found you
and your family in it (AHHHHH!)
GOT DAMNIT HE MEANT IT WHEN HE TELLS YOU

[Chorus 2X]

Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum, tahh-dum.. ta-dah-da
Dum..

I'm the illest rapper to hold a cordless
Patrolling corners
Looking for hookers to punch in the mouth with a roll of quarters
I'm meaner in action
Than Rosco beating James Tarteenyer ()
And smackin his back with vacuum cleaner attachments
I grew up in the wild hood
As a hazardous youth
With a fucked up childhood
That I used as an excuse
And aint shit changed
But kept the same mindstate
Since the third time that I failed 9th grade
You probably think that I'm a negative person don't be so sure of it
I don't promote violence I just encourage it
I laugh at the sight of death
As I fall down a cement flight of steps
And land inside a bed of spider webs
So throw caution to the wind
You and a friend
Can jump off of a bridge and if you live, do it again
Shit, why not Blow your brain out
I'm blowing mine out
Fuck it, you only live once you might as well die now

It's only fair to warn
I was born with a set of horns
And metaphors attached to my damn umbulical cord
Warlord of rap little bastard with a two by four board
That smashed into your Honda Accord
With a 4 door Ford
But a more toward () droppin an accapella
The choppa () fella
The mozarella
Worse than a hellacopta propella
Got you locked in the cella
With your skeleton showing
Developing anorexia
While I'm standin next to ya
Eating a full course meal watching you starve to death
With an IV in your veins
Feeding you liquid darvicet
Pumping you full of drugs
Pull the plugs
On the gunshot victims full of bullet slugs
Who were picked up in an ambulance
And driven
To receiving with the asses ripped outta they pants
And given
A less than 20 percent chance
Of living
Have a possible placement
It's a hospital patient
Storing the dead bodies in grandma's little basement
Doctor Kevorkian has arrived
To perform an autopsy on you while you scream "I'M STILL ALIVE!"
Driving a rusty scalpel in through the top of your scalp
And pulling your adams apple out through your mouth
Better call the fire department
I've hired a arson
To set fire to carpet
And burn up your entire apartment
I'm a liar to start shit ()
Got your bitch wrapped around my dick
So tight you need a crobar to pry her apart wit

Met a retarded kid named Greg with a wooden leg
Snatched it off and beat him over the fucking head with the peg
Go to bed with the keg wake up with the 40
Mixed up with Alka Seltzer and Formula 44D
Fuck an acid tab I'll strap the whole sheet to my forehead
Wait until it absorbed in and fell to the floor dead
No more said case closed end of discussion
I'm blowin up like spontaneous human combustion
Leaving you in the aftermath of holocaust and traumas
Cross the bombas ()
We blowin up your house killing your parents
and coming back to get your foster mommas
And I'm as good at keeping a promise as Nostradamus
Cause I aint making no more threats
I'm doing drivebys in tinted Corvettes on Vietnam war vets
I'm more or less sick in the head
Maybe more cause I smoked crack ()
today, yesterday, and the day before sabbath
Walk the block with a labrador
Strapit more corral for war than El Salvador
Foul style galore
Verbal cow manure
Coming together like the eyebrow on Al B. Sure

Where's my snare, I have no snare in my headphones, there ya' go, yeah, yo', yo'...

Have you ever been hated or discriminated against, I have, i've been protested and demonstrated
against, picket signs for my wicked rhymes, look at the times, sick is the mind of the
motherfuckin' kid that's behind, all this commotion, emotions run deep as ocean's explodin',
tempers flaring from parents, just blow 'em off and keep goin', not takin' nothin' from no one,
give 'em hell long as i'm breathin', keep kickin' ass in the mornin', an' takin' names in the
evening, leave 'em with a taste as sour as vinegar in they mouth, see they can trigger me but
they'll never figure me out, look at me now, I bet ya' probably sick of me now, ain't you mama,
i'ma make you look so ridiculous now...

[CHORUS]

I'm sorry mama, I never meant to hurt you, I never meant to make you cry, but tonight i'm
cleanin' out my closet, {one more time}, I said i'm sorry mama, I never meant to hurt you, I
never meant to make you cry, but tonight i'm cleanin' out my closet...

I got some skeletons in my closet and I don't know if no one knows it, so before they thrown me
inside my coffin and close it, i'ma expose it, i'll take you back to '73, before I ever had a
multi-platinum sellin' Cd, I was a baby, maybe I was just a couple of months, my faggot father
must have had his pantie's up in a bunch, cause he split, I wonder if he even kissed me goodbye,
no I don't on second thought, I just fuckin' wished he would die, I look at Hailie and I
couldn't picture leavin' her side, even if I hated Kim, I grit my teeth and I'd try, to make it
work with her at least for Hailie's sake, I maybe made some mistakes but i'm only human, but i'm
man enough to face them today, what I did was stupid, no doubt it was dumb, but the smartest
shit I did was take them bullets out of that gun, cause id'a killed 'em, shit I would have shot
Kim and him both, it's my life, i'd like to welcome y'all to the Eminem show...

[CHORUS]

Now I would never diss my own mama just to get recognition, take a second to listen who you
think this record is dissin', but put yourself in my position, just try to envision witnessin'
your Mama poppin' prescription pills in the kitchen, bitchin' that someone's always goin'
through her purse and shits missin', going through public housing systems, victim of
Munchausen's syndrome, my whole life I was made to believe I was sick when I wasn't 'til I grew
up, now I blew up, it makes you sick to ya' stomach, doesn't it, wasn't it the reason you made
that Cd for me, ma, so you could try to justify the way you treated me, ma, but guess what, your
gettin' older now and it's cold when your lonely, and Nathan's growing up so quick, he's gonna
know that your phoney, and Hailie's getting so big now, you should see her, she's beautiful, but
you'll never see her, she won't even be at your funeral, see what hurts me the most is you won't
admit you was wrong, bitch, do your song, keep tellin' yourself that you was a mom, but how dare
you try to take what you didn't help me to get, you selfish bitch, I hope you fuckin' burn in
hell for this shit, remember when Ronnie died and you said you wished it was me, well guess
what, I am dead, dead to you as can be...

[CHORUS]

Ah ah ah ahhh
Oh god damn
I'm gonna facckin cum
Oh shit, oh yeah
Fack fack faaaack
Fuck I am
I am,
I'm going to cum
I'm cumming

I never seen no shit like this
This bitch can twist like a damn contortionist
Condom on my dick
Of course it is
This bitch don't know what abortion is
So I can't cum in her
Fucks like a porn star
Looks like jenna
Fuck I'm gonna
Cum
I think my rubbers coming off
But oh it's so fuckin wet and soft
Fuck I'm gonna start letting off
I'm squirting and she's not getting off
And she's on top
I'm gonna fucking, oh god
Oh don't do that
Don't stop
Stop, don't, I don't mean don't stop
Ah Wait a minute
Oh ohh fack
I'm gonna fucking cum

Ah ah ah ahhh
Oh god damn
I'm gonna facckin cum
Oh shit, oh yeah
Fack fack fack
Fack I am
I am,
I'm going to cum
I'm cumming

Oh wow oh aww
I need a cigarette now
oh I'm so fucking hot and your so fuckin hot
Oh my God
I wanna facking fack
No, not fuck
I said fack
F A C K F A C K
fack fack facking freak me
oh yeah girl c baby
They call me mr freaky
Lets call your sister threeway
Have some threesome
Me so horny
And your such a fuckin babe
I wanna go down on u
Fack u shave
Oh god damn
here I go again
I'm gonna cum, I am

Ah ah ah ahhh
Oh god damn
I'm gonna facckin cum
Oh shit, oh yeah
Fack fack fack
Fack I am
I am,
I'm going to cum
I'm cumming

Ok I'm done
I already came twice
You ain't gonna make me cum
I'm all out of gas
Not so fast
Ah Your finger just went in my ass'
Ahh that hurts take it out now
Oh wait a minute put it back in
In in in
This don't mean I'm gay, I don't like men
I like boobs
Boobs boobs
Now See that gerbil
Grab that tube
Shove it up my butt
Let that little rascal nibble on my asshole
Oh yeah right there, right there
Uhhh I'm cumming
Oh yeah
Fack I just came again
Ok pull it out now
Oh fuck yeah
Wait he's not out
He's still crawling around up there
Oh fack I think it's stuck
Oh but it feels so fucking good

Ah ah ah ahhh
Oh god damn
I'm gonna facckin cum
Oh shit, oh yeah
Fack fack fack
Fack I am
I am,
I'm going to cum
I'm cumming

Shove a gerbil in your ass
Through a tube
Shove a gerbil in your ass
Through a tube
Shove a gerbil in your ass
Through a tube
Shove a gerbil in your ass
Through a tube
Ewww
Eww ewww

[Intro]
[Eminem making sounds:]
Down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down!
Ok..
Guess who's back?
Back again
Shady's back
Tell a friend
Whaaaaaaaa

Now everyone report to the dance floor
To the dance floor, to the dance floor
Now everyone report to the dance floor
Alright Stop!.....Pajama time

[Verse 1]
Come here little kiddies, On my lap
Guess who's back with a brand new rap?
And I don't mean rap as in a new case of child molestation accusation
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
No worries, papa's got a brand new bag of toys
What else could I possibly do to make noise?
I done touched on everything, but little boys
That's not a stab at Michael
That's just a metaphor, I'm just psycho
I go a little bit crazy sometimes
I get a little bit out of control with my rhymes
Good God, dip, do a little slide
Bend down, touch your toes and just glide
Up the center of the dance floor
Like TP for my bunghole
And it's cool if you let one go
Nobody's gonna know, who'd hear it?
Give a little "poot poot", it's OK! [Fart Sound]
Oops my CD just skipped
And everyone just heard you let one rip

[Chorus]
Now I'm gonna make you dance
It's your chance
Yeah boy shake that ass
Oops I mean girl girl girl girl
Girl you know you're my world
Alright now lose it
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Just lose it
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Go crazy
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Oh baby
(HA-HA)
Oh baby, baby
(HA-HA)

[Verse 2]
Well, it's Friday and it's my day
Just to party all the way to Sunday
Maybe 'til Monday, I dunno what day
Everyday's just a holiday
Crusin' on the freeway
Feelin' kinda breezy
Got the top down, lettin' my hair blow
I dunno where I'm goin'
All I know is when I get there
Someone's gonna "touch my body"

Excuse me miss, I don't mean to sound like a jerk
But I'm feelin' just a little stressed out from work
Could you punch me in the stomach and pull my hair?
Spit on me, maybe gouge my eyes out? (Yeah)
Now, what's your name girl?
What's your sign?
[Dr Dre] "Man, you must be up out your mind"
DRE! (HA-HA)
Beer Goggles! Blind!
I'm just tryna unwind now I'm

[Chorus]
Now I'm gonna make you dance
It's your chance
Yeah boy shake that ass
Oops I mean girl girl girl girl
Girl you know you're my world
Alright now lose it
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Just lose it
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Go crazy
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Oh baby
(HA-HA)
Oh baby, baby
(HA-HA)

[Verse 3]
It's Tuesday and I'm locked up
I'm in jail and I don't know what happened
They say I was running butt naked
Down the street screaming
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Well I'm sorry, I don't remember
All I know is this much
I'm not guilty
They said, "Save it, boy we gotcha you on tape
yellin' at an old lady 'Touch my body!'"

Now this is the part where the rap breaks down
It gets real intense, no one makes a sound
Everything looks like it's 8 Mile now
The beat comes back and everybody lose themselves
Snap back to reality
Look it's B.Rabbit!
Yo you signed me up to battle!?
I'm a grown man!
Chubba chubba chubba chubba chubba chubbie
I don't have any lines to go right here so, chubba teletubbie!
Fella's (WHAT?!) Fella's (WHAT?!)
Grab you left nut, make your right one jealous (what?)
Black girls
White girls
Skinny girls
Fat girls
Tall girls
Small girls
I'm callin' all girls
Everyone report to the dance floor
It's your chance for a little romance or
Butt squeezin' it's the season
Just go (HA-HA-HA-HA)
It's so appeasin'

[Chorus]
Now I'm gonna make you dance
It's your chance
Yeah boy shake that ass
Oops I mean girl girl girl girl
Girl you know you're my world
Alright now lose it
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Just lose it
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Go crazy
(HA-HA-HA-HA-HA)
Oh baby
(HA-HA)
Oh baby, baby
(HA-HA)

[Outro]
UmMmMmm touch my body
UmMmMmm touch my body
Ooh boy just touch my body
I mean girl just touch my body

Step by step, heart to heart, left right left
We all fall down...

[Chorus]
Step by step, heart to heart, left right left
We all fall down like toy soldiers
Bit by bit, torn apart, we never win
But the battle wages on for toy soldiers

[Verse 1]
I'm supposed to be the soldier who never blows his composure
Even though I hold the weight of the whole world on my shoulders
I am never supposed to show it, my crew ain't supposed to know it
Even if it means goin' toe to toe with a Benzino it don't matter
I'd never drag them in battles that I can handle unless I absolutely have to
I'm supposed to set an example
I need to be the leader, my crew looks for me to guide 'em
If some shit ever does pop off, I'm supposed to be beside 'em
That Ja shit I tried to squash it, it was too late to stop it
There's a certain line you just don't cross and he crossed it
I heard him say Hailie's name on a song and I just lost it
It was crazy, this shit went way beyond some Jay-z and Nas shit
And even though the battle was won, I feel like we lost it
I spent too much energy on it, honestly I'm exhausted
And I'm so caught in it I almost feel I'm the one who caused it
This ain't what I'm in hip-hop for, it's not why I got in it
That was never my object for someone to get killed
Why would I wanna destroy something I help build
It wasn't my intentions, my intentions was good
I went through my whole career without ever mentionin' Suge
And that was just out of respect for not runnin' my mouth
And talkin' about something that I knew nothing about
Plus Dre told me stay out, this just wasn't my beef
So I did, I just fell back, watched and gritted my teeth
While he's all over t.v. down talkin' a man who literally saved my life
Like fuck it i understand this is business
And this shit just isn't none of my business
But still knowin' this shit could pop off at any minute cuz

[Chorus]

[Verse 2]
There used to be a time when you could just say a rhyme
And wouldn't have to worry about one of your people dyin'
But now it's elevated cuz once you put someone's kids in it
The shit gets escalated, it ain't just words no more is it?
It's a different ball game, callin' names and you ain't just rappin'
We actually tried to stop the 50 and Ja beef from happenin'
Me and Dre had sat with him, kicked it and had a chat with him
And asked him not to start it he wasn't gonna go after him
Until Ja started yappin' in magazines how we stabbed him
Fuck it 50 smash 'em, mash 'em and let him have it
Meanwhile my attention is pullin' in other directions
Some receptionist at The Source who answers phones at his desk
Has an erection for me and thinks that I'll be his ressurection
Tries to blow the dust off his mic and make a new record
But now he's fucked the game up cuz one of the ways I came up
Was through that publication the same one that made me famous
Now the owner of it has got a grudge against me for nothin'
Well fuck it, that motherfucker can get it too, fuck him then
But I'm so busy being pissed off I don't stop to think
That we just inherited 50's beef with Murder Inc.
And he's inherited mine which is fine ain't like either of us mind
We still have soldiers that's on the front line
That's willing to die for us as soon as we give the orders
Never to extort us, strictly to show they support us
We'll maybe shout 'em out in a rap or up in a chorus
To show them we love 'em back and let 'em know how important it is
To have Runyan Avenue, soldiers up in our corners
Their loyalty to us is worth more than any award is
But I ain't tryna have none of my people hurt and murdered
It ain't worth it, I can't think of a perfecter way to word it
Then to just say that I love ya'll too much to see the verdict
I'll walk away from it all before I let it go any further
But don't get it twisted, it's not a plea that I'm coppin'
I'm just willin' to be the bigger man
If ya'll can quit poppin' off at the jaws, well then I can
Cuz frankly I'm sick of talkin'
I'm not gonna let someone elses coffin rest on my conscience cuz

[Chorus]


Yeah
I know sometimes things may not always make sense to you right now
But hey, what daddy always tell you?
Straighten up little soldier
Stiffen up that upper lip
What you crying about?
You got me

Hailie I know you miss your mom and I know you miss your dad
Well I'm gone but I'm trying to give you the life that I never had
I can see you're sad, even when you smile, even when you laugh
I can see it in your eyes, deep inside you want to cry
Cause you're scared, I ain't there?
Daddy's with you in your prayers
No more crying, wipe them tears
Daddy's here, no more nightmares
We gon' pull together through it, we gon' do it
Laney uncles crazy, ain't he?
Yeah but he loves you girl and you better know it
We're all we got in this world
When it spins, when it swirls
When it whirls, when it twirls
Two little beautiful girls
Lookin' puzzled, in a daze
I know it's confusing you
Daddy's always on the move, mamma's always on the news
I try to keep you sheltered from it but somehow it seems
The harder that I try to do that, the more it backfires on me
All the things growing up his daddy that he had to see
Daddy don't want you to see but you see just as much as he did
We did not plan it to be this way, your mother and me
But things have gotten so bad between us
I don't see us ever being together ever again
Like we used to be when we was teenagers
But then of course everything always happens for a reason
I guess it was never meant to be
But it's just something we have no control over and that's what destiny is
But no more worries, rest your head and go to sleep
Maybe one day we'll wake up and this will all just be a dream

[Chorus]
Now hush little baby, don't you cry
Everything's gonna be alright
Stiffen that upper lip up little lady, I told ya
Daddy's here to hold ya through the night
I know mommy's not here right now and we don't know why
We feel how we feel inside
It may seem a little crazy, pretty baby
But I promise momma's gon' be alright

It's funny
I remember back one year when daddy had no money
Mommy wrapped the Christmas presents up
And stuck 'em under the tree and said some of 'em were from me
Cause daddy couldn't buy 'em
I'll never forget that Christmas I sat up the whole night crying
Cause daddy felt like a bum, see daddy had a job
But his job was to keep the food on the table for you and mom
And at the time every house that we lived in
Either kept getting broken into and robbed
Or shot up on the block and your mom was saving money for you in a jar
Tryna start a piggy bank for you so you could go to college
Almost had a thousand dollars till someone broke in and stole it
And I know it hurt so bad it broke your momma's heart
And it seemed like everything was just startin' to fall apart
Mom and dad was arguin' a lot so momma moved back
On the Chalmers in the flat one bedroom apartment
And dad moved back to the other side of 8 Mile on Novara
And that's when daddy went to California with his CD and met Dr. Dre
And flew you and momma out to see me
But daddy had to work, you and momma had to leave me
Then you started seeing daddy on the T.V. and momma didn't like it
And you and Laney were to young to understand it
Papa was a rollin' stone, momma developed a habit
And it all happened too fast for either one of us to grab it
I'm just sorry you were there and had to witness it first hand
Cause all I ever wanted to do was just make you proud
Now I'm sitting in this empty house, just reminiscing
Lookin' at your baby pictures, it just trips me out
To see how much you both have grown, it's almost like you're sisters now
Wow, guess you pretty much are and daddy's still here
Laney I'm talkin' to you too, daddy's still here
I like the sound of that, yeah
It's got a ring to it don't it?
Shh, momma's only gone for the moment

[Chorus]

And if you ask me too
Daddy's gonna buy you a mockingbird
I'mma give you the world
I'mma buy a diamond ring for you
I'mma sing for you
I'll do anything for you to see you smile
And if that mockingbird don't sing and that ring don't shine
I'mma break that birdies neck
I'll go back to the jeweler who sold it to ya
And make him eat every carat don't fuck with dad (haha)

[Akon:]
Shady
Convict
Upfront
Akon
Slim Shady

I see the one, because she be that lady! Hey!
I feel you creeping on, I can see from my shadow
Wanna jump up in my Lamborghini Gallardo
Maybe go to my place and just kick it like tabo
And possibly bend you over look back and watch me

[Chorus (2X):]
Smack that all on the floor
Smack that give me some more
Smack that 'till you get sore
Smack that oh-oooh!

Upfront style ready to attack now
Pull in the parking lot slow with the lac down
Convicts got the whole thing packed now
Step in the club now and wardrobe intact now!
I feel it down and cracked now (ooh)
I see it dull and backed now
I'm gonna call her, than I pull the mack down
Money no problem, pocket full of that now!

I feel you creeping on, I can see from my shadow
Wanna jump up in my Lamborghini Gallardo
Maybe go to my place and just kick it like tabo
And possibly bend you over look back and watch me

[Chorus (2x)]

[Eminem:]

Ooh...Looks like another club banger
They better hang on when they throw this thing on
Get a lil drink on
They gonna flip for this Akon shit
You can bank on it!
Pedicure medicure kitty-cat claws
The way she climbs up and down them poles
Looking like one of them putty-cat dolls
Trying to hold my woodie back through my draws
Steps upstage didn't think I saw
Creeps up behind me, shes like "yoo"
I'm like ya I know lets cut to the chase
No time to waste back to my place
Plus from the club to the crib it's like a mile away
Or more like a palace, shall I say
Plus I got pal if your gal is game
In fact he is the one singing the song that's playing
"Akon!"

[Akon:]
I feel you creeping on, I can see from my shadow
Wanna jump up in my Lamborghini Gallardo
Maybe go to my place and just kick it like tabo
And possibly bend you over look back and watch me

[Chorus]

Eminem is rollin', d and em rollin' bo
And all marvelous them rolling
Women just holding big booty rollin'
Soon I'll be on Eminem throwing "D!"
Hitting on less than "Three!"
Block wheel style like "Whee!"
Girl I can tell you want me because lately

I feel you creeping on, I can see from my shadow
Wanna jump up in my Lamborghini Gallardo
Maybe go to my place and just kick it like tabo
And possibly bend you over look back and watch me

[Chorus]

Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
B-ballin' Uncontrollably
[x4]

Man, I got everything candy-painted
Candy-painted tint, shit's so dark
I'd be lying if I said I ain't hit
at least nine of my friends
Plus, I got so much candy paint in my rims
Paint be flyin' off my car
Be candy paintin' the neighborhood kids
I got that whole block lookin' like it's Candyland
Ask about me, man, they be like, there go the candy man
I park the car in the garage and go in and
Come back the next mornin'
The rims are still spinnin'
Hit the wheels on that Phantom, man, that shit looks like the Batmobile
32-inch rims, shit, I ain't even got no wheels
Custom-fitted, custom-kitted wood grain
Custom everything, what's that on the seat?
Custom mustard stain
Now let's go hit the mall, y'all know that we finna ball
Get out the car, they be like, "Ah, there go them superstars!"
Hit every single store, flash a fucking wad of cash
but I ain't buying shit, bitch
Kiss my candy-painted ass
We...

Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
B-ballin' Uncontrollably
[x4]

Yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Hit the corner liquor store
To get Corona, tip the owners
Sipped it on the way out as I dipped, I wanna rip the road up
And I'ma hit the cinema and I'ma get the hoes,
When I be it, I be it, shit, anything goes
I'm ballin' out of control, girls know I'm loaded with dough
But, shit, I'm stingy as fuck
I'm fuckin' stingy as hoes
These bitches don't get a crumb, and it come
but I'm like what up
Shut up, bitch, sit up, get up off them knees
My candy paint's enough
If you're lucky, I'll let you hug me, but that's all you get
Then I'ma split, disappear, a cloud of smoke is all you see
Yeah...

Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
B-ballin' Uncontrollably
[x4]

Bitch, get the fuck out my car if we ain't finna fuck
I'm horny as fuck, bitch, are you suckin' my dick or what?
I'll fuck a chick in the butt, I really don't give a shit
Is pretty Marshall gonna have to go choke me a bitch?
You fuckin' keyed up my Benz
Bitch, I beat up my friends
Don't think I won't beat a bitch
I'll kick a six-year-old in the ribs
You fuckin' retard, I'll have you suckin' farts out my seat
I'll teach you not to know how to control your bowels when you eat
What the fuck do you think that colostomy bag is for, looks?
I ain't waste nine bullets on you for you to not sing no hooks
I fuckin' take a Make a Wish Foundation patient with me
How 'bout some coke inside of your saline solution IV?
Turn around and use it on me
You tryna snort on my keys?
You fuckin' broad, get in back, you're comin' to Florida with me,
Tell your momma I'ma drop you off at the hospital later
We finna make this run
Take this gun and cover me, Slater
And quit your...

Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
Ballin' Uncontrollably
B-ballin' Uncontrollably
[x4]

[Obie Trice:]
Obie the person that came up introverted
Cause of nervousness that was solely the only verdict
It was worth it cause he changed became so observant
Serving such of a purpose
If you knew him earlier in his days its like a different version
So much hurtin' and pain gave him game for certain
That's why there's curtains in this murder if you gettin' worked up
I'm so assertive on these motherfuckers actin' tougher
I had enough of isolating myself in a room
Writing poems and songs, doin' the same in school
Now look what he became, a fool?
Cause he learned how to sustain his tool and obtain fame from you
Living hard but still Juliard a god walks in but ain't spend a day in the pew
Regardless of this I draw visual pictures when a nigga vents
So welcome to the art department

[Eminem:]
I stimulate the brain, mimic, emulate the sane
Cinic keep em' thinking its a fucking gimmick when it ain't
Clinically insane, brain is on Venus suck Uranus
Label me a genius if you ever seen us you would say
He may seem as though he's plain normal
If you ever meet him, greet him with a shake, see
He ain't as mean as what they say
See the thing is maybe he can't always think of things to say
So he's vague, so they mistake him for just bein' crazed
You part ways, your impression of him changed
You don't think he's strange, you turn around and tell him "peace and thanks"
Then you catch him flipping you off, with his pants down
Hands around his scrotum, tucking his fucking penis between his legs

[Obie Trice:]
Obie the person that came up introverted
Cause of nervousness that was solely the only verdict
It was worth it cause he changed became so observant
Serving such of a purpose
If you knew him earlier in his days its like a different version
So much hurtin' and pain gave him game for certain
That's why there's curtains in this murder if you gettin' worked up
I'm so assertive on these motherfuckers actin' tougher
I had enough of isolating myself in a room
Writing poems and songs, doin' the same in school
Now look what he became, a fool?
Cause he learned how to sustain his tool and obtain fame from you
Living hard but still Juliard a god walks in but ain't spend a day in the pew
Regardless of this I draw visual pictures when a nigga vents
So welcome to the art department

[Eminem:]
Its all psychologic, why am I so maniacal,
Am I psycho or some kind of psychotic stick,
Or am I truly psychotic, or my molecules just diabolical,
Cause biologically I defy logic, bye golly hall me off on a trolly, probably wanna cracker, I'm back on the wacky tobacco,
I'm a step away from crack Obie smack the shit outta me,
I'm so slap happy man, snap me back to reality,
Ima walking art gallery, a science museum,
Elephantiasis of the nuts you probably die if you see em,
I pull em out they hit the ground and probably crack the cement,
I need an ambulance I cant just put em back in my pants

[Just Blaze - Chorus:]
Some people ask me, where I’ve been lately
They thought I fell off, nobody could save me
I play in the background, I don’t back down
So don’t get it twisted, tryna play me
First I come out, they underate me
Then I come back, still try to fade me
They say I’m nasty, say I’m crazy
Ask what I think, I say maybe
I fly away
It ain’t nothin’ in my way so I may aswell fly away
It ain’t nothin’ else to say so I may aswell fly away
I know you wanna see me down but we aint gon die today
Cos I’ve been to the top and there’s nowhere else to go
The only way to see me is if you lookin’ up from down below
And there’s nothin’ else to say so I may aswell fly away
And there’s nothin’ in my way so I may aswell fly away
I’m on top of this thing so i may aswell fly away

[Eminem - Verse 1:]
Got my self esteem back, got my confidence up
I’ma step up on the stage now, I’m gonna strut
And walk around with my pants hanging over my butt
And you aint gotta tell me notin’ boy, get off of my nuts
It goes one for the money, two for the show
My shit don’t stink, I dont think so
Wipe my ass with a tissue and roll it back up in a roll
Are you ready now, here we go
The bald eagle has landed
I’m back in ya hair, sorry for leavin’ you stranded
Im twice as dread and evil and rancid
They cant sit, I don’t think anybody understands it
Especially when the Worlds silly putty in ya hands, its playdough
I aint got to play though, they say I died in a fatal
Car crash, shows what they know
Shit if I did, it’d be a trailer not a car
The white trash star
I fuckin RV up like Brett Favre
Homie you got it backwards, your dippin your soup inside ya crackers
I can carry rap til my back hurts
Set it down go right back to the Chiropractors
Get my back right
Now I’m right back on you bastards
I was chasin’ the dragon, I dont know what happened
It was like the feelin’ I had when I first started rappin’
I just could’nt seem to get back and recapture that magic
So I went back to the lab, thats where I’ve been at when...

[Just Blaze - Chorus:]
Some people ask me, where I’ve been lately
They thought I fell off, nobody could save me
I play in the background, I don’t back down
So don’t get it twisted, tryna play me
First I come out, they underate me
Then I come back, still try to fade me
They say I’m nasty, say I’m crazy
Ask what I think, I say maybe
I fly away
It ain’t nothin’ in my way so I may aswell fly away
It ain’t nothin’ else to say so I may aswell fly away

[Eminem - Verse 2:]
I took a hiatus haters now I’m back to cause trouble
Got the fucking shape of mushroom clouds for thought bubbles
Im the *bang* you aint fuckin sick
The hospital won’t even give you cough drops for course cocksucker
You think your hot, you aint even luke warm
My pubes hotter than you
Your soft I use fire to cool me off
I told em I’ll grow up one day and show ‘em I’d be able to choke clouds
Pick up lightenin’ bolts and throw ‘em
Take the world by storm with these words I form
Georgie porgie kissed the girls, make the girls cry for em
Make ‘em swarm, make ‘em fight over the shirts I’ve worn
Sworn over my sweat towels, its mind blowin
Yes Im livin’ the dream homie, cant nothin’ compare
I’m so up, I’m stuck in mid air I’m lovin’ it yeah
Its like these people are steps now, all they do is stare
These haters is so pussy they’re afraid to be scared
This is pay back, like I owe ‘em back pay
They spat in my face, now I’m back to do them the same exact way
And leave this rap game with a bad taste,
And slap it back out, before I step back out of this crap thanks
Slap me now I’m slapping ‘em back hey! fuck it we’ll slap back
But yeh okay now we’ll talk cause I’m smack ay
And I aint looking back infact they can stare at my ass crack
How’s that for hindsight, what the track say?

[Just Blaze - Chorus]

I'm a goat
and for those of y'all who don't know what a goat is
it means the greatest of all time
and I consider myself one of those
so thank you very much, here it goes!

This is the part I was worried about
everyone thinks that my career is down the tubes
and I'm in some dusty garage inhaling them carbon monoxide fumes
and everyone's telling me what I should do
and how I should come out and what to rap about
and I know I got a lot up in my medulla oblongata that I gotta get out
and I'm not sure how this is gonna come off
they're probably gonna think that I'm coming off as cocky (haha)
like I just started giving a fuck what you really think about me
see, the thing about me
is you don't really know a thing about me
everyone's making a stink about me
like there's some kind of a aura of that of the king around me
surround me with nothin' but gangsters, killers, and bangers
and the most dangerous criminals
and I feel like I'm more comfortable around them than I do my own motherfuckin' neighbors
but, see, my dream is to be remembered as one of the best when I leave
but why does it seem like I'm not even put up in the same category as other emcees?
so when Weezy says that he's better than Jay-z
please, be that just subliminally
means he thinks Jigga's the best and that he's
the only one up in that league, see
and it's easy just to consider me one of the greatest white rappers there is
knowing god damn well that I'm one of the best motherfucking rappers who ever lived period.

I'm a goat
and I don't mean to gloat
but I know what I know and I know what you think
and these magazines'll never put it in ink
because how would it look if they considered me as a goat?
and for those of y'all who don't know what a goat is
it means the greatest of all time
and I consider myself one of those
so thank you very much, here it goes!

Maybe they figure that I'm on my way out the game
so they gotta go try to find em a new Eminem
or a new Shady, if they think it's gonna happen
man, I thought I was crazy
or maybe I could be takin' it wrong and they're tryna pay homage to me in a strange way
so let me pay homage to my fellow white competitors almost in the same way
see, you hardly ever do hear anyone even bringing up that Paul Wall's white
cause lyrically he doesn't pose a threat to anyone, see, he's just aight
and Bubba Sparxxx, he just won't write
because he's so caught up in that snow white
that Timbaland can't even get him in the studio
he's so gone off that coke, right
and it's so sad, cause he's dope, right
America's next great white hope, right
so now they feel like they gotta come up with some corny ass white rapper show, right
and which I'm still havin' mixed feelings about
they said it'd be real, I'm just spillin' it out
there's somethin' about a white boy talking black and runnin' around with a damn grill in his mouth
and I love when the say that Tiger Woods shit
"Isn't it ironic that the best rapper's white and the best golfer's black?"
and I'm the one who's gotta catch all the flack offa' that
but these are the people who never had heard of an Eminem until 8 Mile had came out
but I had already hit middle America
Parents had all got to likin' me now
when suddenly I wasn't such a bad guy
all of the hatred for me must've died
thought I committed career suicide so I had to turn back into the bad guy
so faggoty faggoty faggoty gays
and anatomy God made Raggedy Ann and Andy
not Raggedy Andy and Andy and Andy
and Angelina Jolie is just another ho
and Brad is a sucka' because once I fuck her
she wants to go to Somalia to adopt another baby
you know what I say? No
You better save some of them kids from Madonna
she needs all the publicity she can get
you want a Shady? Well, you got it, man
I ain't apologizin' for shit.

I'm a goat
and I don't mean to gloat
but I know what I know and I know what you think
and these magazines'll never put it in ink
because how would it look if they considered me as a goat?
and for those of y'all who don't know what a goat is
it means the greatest of all time
and I consider myself one of those
so thank you very much, here it goes!

Man, I'm takin' my ball and goin' home, man
shit is too easy
nobody even wants to pass me the ball cause
(I'm a goat)
so don't worry, I'm out the motherfuckin' game
and y'all can sit and argue about who's the motherfuckin' best
but y'all know that
(I'm a goat)
and like I said, I'm one of the motherfuckin' best
before you get your panties in a motherfuckin' bunch
but before I go, I'd like to say fuck you very much to everybody who wasn't there from the start
and thank you very much to everybody who was
and y'all ain't gotta say it, just think it
cause I know that you know that I know that you know that I know that you know
(I'm a goat)
(hahahaha)
I'm out, y'all
it's been real, peace

Yeah, yeah, I get it
I run this rap shit, now guess who’s back
You thought I left you, now why would I do that? (1, 2, 3)

They keep on sayin’ the same rappers are the best
Jay-Z and Kanye West, maybe they’re just tryna distract it
From the fact that I’m comin’ back
Or maybe it’s cause I ain’t black, maybe it’s because of that
Maybe it’s because I’m the highest sellin’ artist in rap
While I’m sittin’ back in my office jackin’ off to my plaques
I’m still sick, how can I be sick this long
And I’m still alive, Magic Johnson arise
I thrive on makin’ my opponents think that I’ve died
That’s when I just pop up outta nowhere, oh yeah, there we go there
Damn I forgot how much money he got
On the beach of Saint-Tropez, but your man don’t lay
In the sun cause I don’t tan, I burn, blood clot
When you gonna learn how much money we’ve earned
How does it feel to know I came in this game at 25
And coulda retired at 29 in my 20′s still
And Fif’ here to lick on that Coca-Cola shit
And he ain’t even gotta look at coke to even hold a brick
No more, oh boy, goddamn did he score
To go from sellin’ bags to bottles right out the store
And Shady hit the box office man, he knocked the socks off us
My ex-wife is set for life, you profitless cocksuckers
So stay the fuck off us, we make pay
I’m just a super easy modest MC, okay?
Til I hear the word has been, that’s when I start spazzin’
Smart asses, kiss a smarter ass then
I’m the best thing that ever happened to rap, bastards
I’m a blonde Dre, now gimme Kanye’s glasses!

[Eminem]
Fame, fame, fame
I think it's got me goin' crazy
Ohhhohhh
I get lost in this game, game, game
I'm gettin' tired of all you naysayers
Ohhhohhh
Keep speaking my name, name, name
You gon' have reason to hate me
Yeahhhheahhh
It's like. you. don't. want. me to win
So. this. time. I'm goin' in!

[Swifty]
This the life of a rocker
jagermeister and vodka
Hoppin' off of the club's balcony
Into the crowd, surfin'
And when they drop me, I'm randomly sockin' fans
And when my interviews in hockey masks,
Slap the journalists on their ass
I'm high off speed,
Drivin' my car at high speed
Pocket full of weed, while lesbians follow me
I'm in the studio, envy
My h & m, gon' call for me
Cause I fell asleep on the soundboard, ain't get us off a week
So let's Bang!! all up in my head
Get 'em back ungrateful dead
Bustin' in the air, with 30 bitches up in my bed
I'm kickin' 'em out naked, and this the sympathy
Just ask me why I did it, well fuck it I can't remember

[Eminem]
Fame, fame, fame
I think it's got me goin' crazy
Ohhhohhh
I get lost in this game, game, game
I'm gettin' tired of all you naysayers
Ohhhohhh
Keep speaking my name, name, name
You gon' have reason to hate me
Yeahhhheahhh
It's like. you. don't. want. me to win
So. this. time. I'm goin' in!

[Kuniva]
Some boys are wallin
Drinkin', cussin', and hyper smilin'
Been ridin' for days, tour bus look like ryker's island
Hand me jack daniel's, spray paintin' the die hard fan
Little cocker spaniel, fresh out of the damn zoo
Man you, better be conscious, I'm backstage
Livin' it up, with a couple of sluts feelin' nautious
We're drinkin' it's been a couple of days, since I've slept
My dick is sore from fuckin', when I bust there's nothin' left
Just dust, back on the stage, give me my microphone
Strappin' with the audience as we perform hypersong
Our label presented us with a plaque
Brought it on stage, and bashed it to pieces with an aluminum bats, stanks
Now which one of you bitches down for the cause
Yeah I said my dick is sore but I ain't say shit about my balls
Last call then we off to the next city, yeah
Whatever I didn't drink on my bladder pack it up and take the rest with me

[Eminem]
Fame, fame, fame
I think it's got me goin' crazy
Ohhhohhh
I get lost in this game, game, game
I'm gettin' tired of all you naysayers
Ohhhohhh
Keep speaking my name, name, name
You gon' have reason to hate me
Yeahhhheahhh
It's like. you. don't. want. me to win
So. this. time. I'm goin' in!

[Eminem]
Yeah this game has got me goin' crazy
Fuck it, I am crazy
What's new, what kinda fuckin' glue you'd think I'd be if I was glue
We lost proof, he was our crew's glue
But where was you, when we were fallin' apart
You were shittin on us too
But no one but us knew we were beefin'
Cause that's what happens when you beef with crew
It stays in the crew, cause it's just crew
But we're back now, yeah we took our time while our blood grew
Only thing we're in a hurry for now is to rush you!
And we're back, these days if you don't got the guts or the nuts to
Pussy, go pick your pussy leaves off your cunt tree, fuck you
Ahh choo!
Bless you! I'm allergic to pussy, sluts too
Yeah, you think you the shit, till we flush you
Have some bullshit to readjust
Still got a just a few of us left, but it'd be unjust to rob us our just due
So rest in peace to Bugz and proof
This one's for you homies, we love you
But we can't stop now we done had too much of our blood drew from this...

[Eminem]
Fame, fame, fame
I think it's got me goin' crazy
Ohhhohhh
I get lost in this game, game, game
I'm gettin' tired of all you naysayers
Ohhhohhh
Keep speaking my name, name, name
You gon' have reason to hate me
Yeahhhheahhh
It's like. you. don't. want. me to win
So. this. time. I'm goin' in!

Thanks it's been real
I love you but I just can't deal
With the stress this game is giving me...
But before I go
You know
I can't close the show
Without no closure
So before I leave...

Yeah
I just want to take the time out
to basically say
Rest In Peace
to Deshaun Holton
That's my heart man
Dr Dre
For giving me the oppurtunity
just to even listen to me
to get me to this point
I'd like to thank Jimmy Iovine,
Interscope, Aftermath,
everybody in the whole Shady staff
everybody whose basically supported me from day one
Paul Rosenburg, Tracy Mcnew
You know I love you guys
I couldn't do it all without you
D12
Cashis, your gonna be a beast when you get out there man
trust me homey, my ears don't lie to me
who else am i forgetting
Oh yeah, Obie Trice
Bobby Creekwater, and basically man
the whole city of Detroit
8 mile road for making what I am today
Which basically goes back to proof & D12
I love you guys man
you where there when shit got thick
Oh, it wouldnt be complete, If i didn't
thank my mom, bitch
so

Thanks it's been real
I love you but I just can't deal
With the stress this game is giving me...
[fades]

[INTRO]
I'm a little nutty and I know it
but if you go back and
take a look at my history
you will see that I'm
not the only one who's off his rocker
there were many before me
I was always labelled
the black sheep of the family what a bad seed I
grow to be but if you take a look
at us now you'll see the apple didn't fall too far from the tree

[VERSE 1]
(haha) alright, look
I'ma tell you the story
from my side maybe you'll understand check it out
you done witnessed
unexplainable shit
too insane to explain
people run from what
the just don't get
maybe Shady shoulda
just hit 'em with a little bit
did I spit too soon?
Should I of spoon fed 'em it?
but I was just so eager
to prove I was even worth
being in the same
league or the room with of the people
of whom I was in every now and then I
look up like I was seeking approval
was it because of the
pigment of my skin
or was it a figment of
my imagination
maybe it bothered me
more than it did them
maybe it wasn't a big
deal back then
but to me it was, see
what it was was
I had developed the
complex from being judged
Proof spit his verse,
now I'm next, let's see who
I'm in the booth
staring back to see who's mugs
I get a reaction from,
usually the first thumb was from
Proof
and the rest of the
group backed him up
and no one lied to
each other cause none of us had deals
it was real, we just
wanted tickets for that meal

[CHORUS]
Sometimes I feel like
it's just me
sometimes I feel like
I'm going crazy
but take a look at my
family
cause the apple don't
fall too far from the tree
I said ...
sometimes I feel like
it's just me
sometimes I feel like
I'm going crazy
but take a look at my
family
cause the apple don't
fall too far from the tree

[VERSE 2]
Ever since my mother
was pregnant
with her second egg
cause she said
that I had a baby sister
who fell out of the window
I was too young to remember
Kansas City projects
I was like 5, 6, and how come
I remember Malcolm,
Isaac, and Boogie
if it was the projects in Missouri?
cause those're my best
friends until Isaac
took my tricycle and
my uncle Todd went to try to go get it back
and ended up getting
jumped and cut in the gut with a
switch and 70-some stitches
which is still, to this day
why my mother still
tries to show me some old fake picture
of a fictitious little
sister who never existed and this is why part of
my life's so twisted
but I can never be as
sick as that bitch is
and, by the way, that
picture's one of my relatives

[CHORUS]
Sometimes I feel like
it's just me
sometimes I feel like
I'm going crazy
but take a look at my
family
cause the apple don't
fall too far from the tree
I said ...
sometimes I feel like
it's just me
sometimes I feel like
I'm going crazy
but take a look at my
family
cause the apple don't
fall too far from the tree

[VERSE 3]
You probably have to
peel back layers upon layers of
pain to see why everything
I say is so insane
what's different about my brain that separates me
from other players in this game? on the surface, it may
seem like a scheme or some sort of scam
for me to get some damn sympathy
but that's the last thing
I need is for people
to walk around feeling
sorry for me (me)
and I'm not a G, never
claimed to be
I gave my vest to
Cashis,
he'll need it more than me
but we'll see, cause we ain't lookin' for beef
but if it comes our
way, what do we, turn the other
cheek? come on

[CHORUS]
Sometimes I feel like
it's just me
sometimes I feel like
I'm going crazy
but take a look at my family
cause the apple don't
fall too far from the tree
I said ...
sometimes I feel like
it's just me
sometimes I feel like
I'm going crazy
but take a look at my
family
cause the apple don't
fall too far from the tree

I told the world one day I would pay it back
Say it on tape, and lay it, record it so that one day I could play it back

They ask me am I okay, they ask me if I'm happy
Are they asking me that because of the shit that's been thrown at me

This is a beat with no words at first, it’s a blank painting
Exercising the mind, it’s brain strength training

My motto is live by the bottle
So why is my supply low? Bring in a truckload with a high-low

My name is Chauncey Billups, I'm kind of like a raunchy Phillips
Screwdriver, my crew's live when you can't sleep and you're still up

I came in this game with, bad intentions
And I ain't budged, not even an inch since then

Lava on my lips I flips, wake up think I have a cramp
I'm trying to shove the lava lamp up my father's ass

Got my self esteem back, got my confidence up
I'm gonna step up on this stage now, I'm gonna strut

Shady man, I done told you once homie to easy up
But you just won’t listen will ya? Nah, I guess not

[Eminem - Chorus]
There's no need to say shit you already know
The question is just how far will this go
How far will he take it?
And when will he stop?
Shady man I done told you once homie to easy up
But you just won't listen will ya, nah I guess not
You just can't can ya, man I can't stand ya
You're rotten, what you plottin' for us?
Man when are you gonna let up
I guess things are gonna get much worse 'fore they get better

Holy toledo it's Angelina Jolie amigo
She told me yo Shady just hand your penis to me I'll deep throat
And Brad if you try to stand between us then we're gonna see bro
Who was a fantasy I don't mean to damage your ego
You faggots wanna rassle I shove a fucking jar of vaseline up inside your asshole
And rope it shut with a lasso
Couple of crushed lexapro broken up wit the capsule or paxil
Just incase I ain't dope enough wit the raps though
Coke is cut with tobacco
Smoke it up then go wacko
This is what happens when you mix a cocunut with tabasco
Shady let go, the hoe has been choked up enough
Let her ass go
Not till Jessica Simpson lets go of the tuna casserole
I used to love her hooters now Carmen Elektra cuter
Strap an extension cord to her arm and electrocute her
I'm off my fucking meds but I'm on an electric scooter
I might just scoot by and shoot my mum in the neck with rugers
Spit in Jasons face while I vomit on Freddy Krugar
They can't even get Jeffrey Dahmer to pet the cougar
Now I'm gone get the rectal thermometer, get the lubra-
cation and get the patient some Darvocet to chew cuz

[Eminem - Chorus]
There's no need to say shit you already know
The question is just how far will this go
How far will he take it?
And when will he stop?

[B.o.B]
B.o.B I done told you once homie to easy up, geez
There's no need to say shit you already know
The question is just how far will this go
Cause I will never lay down?
And I will never let up?
(I guess things are gonna get much worse 'fore they get better)

[B.o.B - Verse 2]
With the soul of a Sharman
I leave the beat than vomit
Like a bullemic woman with an uneasy stomach
I pass by people on the street they seem like sheep and zombies
Stiffer than a therapeutic pair of jeans you run in
So can you hear me coming
Eminem this beat is absolutely disgusting
It's probably go diseases on it
I'm just being honest, I can see the comments
I can see the evolution as we creep up on it
I put that music in your veins like a needle junkie
Shit I just do this for the haters, I don't need the money
I diarrhea on track so it needs plunging
Somebody tell these girls please release my undies
Nobody really understands my language
I find it complicated just to hold a conversation
But still I got a whole lot of patience
Sittin' back watching Earth from my Space station

[Eminem - Chorus]
There's no need to say shit you already know
The question is just how far will this go
How far will he take it?
And when will he stop?
Shady man I done told you once homie to easy up
But you just won't listen will ya, nah I guess not
You just can't can ya, man I can't stand ya
You're rotten, what you plottin' for us?
Man when are you gonna let up
I guess things are gonna get much worse 'fore they get better

[Eminem - Verse 3]
Oh my gosh I put Natasha Bendingfield in a washer
Watch it go from rinse to spin cycle
Its like I got ya hypnotising like I gotcha
I gotcha pychologically fucked
Michael would like an apology what
Tell that psycho to stick a Tyco truck and a white tricycle up his butt
And glue the seat of bicycle to his nuts
I'm as cold as a muthafucking icicle on my nut
I aint nuttin' nice, man I like to pull knives and I like to cut
The poster addict for post tramatic stress
I guess this is the most dramatic I've been in a while
This is the closest that its come to the Marshall Mathers
I can hear him start to gather
I don't paint the portrait of the picture perfect Partridge family
This ain't your orphan Annie, no this is more uncanny
Kick down Dakota Fannings front door while the whore is tanning
(He can't say whore)
Of course he can, man he just saw her fanny then murdered her while he danced around the room and wore her panties

[Eminem - Chorus]
There's no need to say shit you already know
The question is just how far will this go
How far will he take it?
And when will he stop?
Shady man I done told you once homie to easy up
But you just won't listen will ya, nah I guess not
You just can't can ya, man I can't stand ya
You're rotten, what you plottin' for us?
Man when are you gonna let up
I guess things are gonna get much worse 'fore they get better

[Chorus:]
Put it on my wee wee!
Banana, strawberry, pineapple, orange! [x4]

[Verse 1:]
Got a dick, it's as big as a banana
I try to control it, but I can't.
It's too tough, it's like an AK flip banana.
You better watch out, Hannah Montana!
Man, what's the matter? Have you no manners? (no!)
You know the girl from Juno's address?
Yeah, I'm a prob'ly go to jail for that.
Now I got the cops on my tail for that!
Run up on your car with a stale banana
In your tail pipe, can't believe you fell for that.
It coulda been a Molotov Cocktail for that.
Wait a minute, man! What the hell was that?
I heard a noise, where you goin'? What are you, bananas?!
You can't go back there, stupid ass!
I just seen a woman in a Freddy Krueger mask.
Who the fuck are you, Superman?
All you have is a little stupid can
Of whipped cream what the hell you gonna do with that?
I'm a put it on my wee wee. Ooh, good answer!
A super bonanza extravaganza.
Man, go ahead, what you waitin' for?
You better get them clothes off, baby boy.
Come on! Let's go! We're gonna make a porn!
Ready, set, go! Hit play, record!

[Chorus]

[Verse 2:]
Are you ready? - You better hold the camera steady.
She's pro'ly back there with a damn machete!
She's pro'ly gonna eat you like canned spaghetti
She's pro'ly gonna kill ya; still wanna check, see?
Have a little quick look? - Go on?
She's pro'ly six foot tall like bigfoot, the hell with that?
We probably should run, don't dare look back!
We probably, probably, probably
There probably was a problem at the post office or something
But you probably didn't know that, did ya?
Now what ya gonna do when she gets ya?
I ain't goin' with ya, forget ya!
Quit tryna hold my hand, mista'!
Pretend she's your little sista'! - Little sista'! [?]
Might as well take the whipped cream with ya
And when you see her, make sure you get a picture!
We could try to make another "Blair Witch-a - movie"
A beastiality porno with smoothies.

[Chorus]

[Verse 3:]
It's Eerie, but here comes Zack and Miri
The "Beauty And The Beast", his back is hairy.
But she don't care, they're attractive, very
Very sexually active, very.
No, Zack! Don't go back in there!
It's too late now, she's grabbin' hair!
He screams: "Bloody Mary!" - Grabs a mirror
But stop just ain't in her vocabular.
"Get off me, please! Get off me, stop!"
Ballin' back at a coffee shop.
They go non-stop. - She says: "Go!"
He says: "No! " - She says: "Oh!"
Back and forth, they scream and shout.
Yeah, boy; let them demons out!
It's the kinda nightmare you dream about
Uh-oh! Now the whipped cream is out.
I get sick thoughts. - Sick, sick, thoughts.
The things you could do with your lipstick gloss.
Put it on my dick 'til the tip looks orange.
Bitch, keep going! - Bitch, keep going!

[Chorus]

[Outro:]
Banana...
Banana...
Banana... [beat fades out]
Banana...
Banana...

[Verse 1]
Now this shit's about to kick off, this party looks wack
Let's take it back to straight hip-hop and start it from scratch
I'm 'bout to bloody this track up, everybody get back
That's why my pen needs a pad cause my rhymes on the ra-hag
Just like I did with addiction I'm 'bout to kick it
Like a magician, critics I turn to crickets
Got 'em still on the fence whether to pick it
But quick to get impaled when I tell 'em stick it
So sick I'm looking pale, well that's my pigment
'Bout to go ham, ya bish, shout out to Kendrick
Let's bring it back to that vintage Slim, bitch!
The art of the MCing mixed with da Vinci and MC Ren
And I don't mean Stimpy's friend, bitch
Been Public Enemy since you thought PE was gym, bitch

[Bridge:]
Take your shoes off, let your hair down and (go berserk), all night long
Grow your beard out, just weird out and (go berserk), all night long

[Hook:]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud, cause it's mayhem 'til the a.m.
So baby make just like K-Fed and let yourself go, let yourself go
Say fuck it before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody, (go berzerk) shake your body

[Verse 2]
Guess it's just the way that I'm dressed, ain't it?
Khaki's pressed, Nike shoes just crispy and fresh laced
So I guess it ain't
That aftershave or cologne that made Em just faint
Plus I just showed up with a coat fresher than wet paint
So if love is a chess game, check mate
But girl your body's banging, jump me in dang, bang bang
Yes sir Bob I was thinking the same thing
So come get on this kid's rock, baw with da baw, dang dang
P-p-p-pow chicka pow chicka wow wow
Got your gal blowin' up a val-v-v-v-val-valve
Ain't slowin' down, throw in the towel, t-t-towel towel
Dumb it down, I don't know how, how, how, how
At least I know that I don't know
Question is are you bozos smart enough to feel stupid
Hope so, now hoe

[Bridge]

[Hook]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud, cause it's mayhem 'til the a.m.
So crank the bass up like crazy and let yourself go, let yourself go
Say fuck it before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody, (go berzerk) get your vials

[Scratches]

[Verse 3]
And they say that love is powerful as cough syrup in Styrofoam
All I know is I fell asleep and woke up in that Monte Carlo
With the ugly Kardashian
Lamar, oh sorry yo, we done both set the bar low
Far as hard, drugs are though that's the past
But I done did enough codeine to knock Future into tomorrow
And girl I ain't got no money to borrow
But I am tryin' to find a way to get you a loan, car note
Oh, Marshall Mathers, shit head with a potty mouth
Get the bar soap lathered, Kangol's and Carheartless Cargos
Girl you’re fixin' to get your heart broke, don’t be absurd man
You birdbrain baby I ain’t called anybody baby since Birdman
Unless you’re a swallow
Word, Rick word man you heard, but don’t be discouraged girl
This is your jam, unless you got toe jam

[Bridge]

[Hook 2x]

[Verse 1]
Now this shit's about to kick off, this party looks wack
Let's take it back to straight hip-hop and start it from scratch
I'm 'bout to bloody this track up, everybody get back
That's why my pen needs a pad cause my rhymes on the ra-hag
Just like I did with addiction I'm 'bout to kick it
Like a magician, critics I turn to crickets
Got 'em still on the fence whether to pick it
But quick to get impaled when I tell 'em stick it
So sick I'm looking pale, well that's my pigment
'Bout to go ham, ya bish, shout out to Kendrick
Let's bring it back to that vintage Slim, bitch!
The art of the MCing mixed with da Vinci and MC Ren
And I don't mean Stimpy's friend, bitch
Been Public Enemy since you thought PE was gym, bitch

[Bridge:]
Take your shoes off, let your hair down and (go berserk), all night long
Grow your beard out, just weird out and (go berserk), all night long

[Hook:]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud, cause it's mayhem 'til the a.m.
So baby make just like K-Fed and let yourself go, let yourself go
Say fuck it before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody, (go berzerk) shake your body

[Verse 2]
Guess it's just the way that I'm dressed, ain't it?
Khaki's pressed, Nike shoes just crispy and fresh laced
So I guess it ain't
That aftershave or cologne that made Em just faint
Plus I just showed up with a coat fresher than wet paint
So if love is a chess game, check mate
But girl your body's banging, jump me in dang, bang bang
Yes sir Bob I was thinking the same thing
So come get on this kid's rock, baw with da baw, dang dang
P-p-p-pow chicka pow chicka wow wow
Got your gal blowin' up a val-v-v-v-val-valve
Ain't slowin' down, throw in the towel, t-t-towel towel
Dumb it down, I don't know how, how, how, how
At least I know that I don't know
Question is are you bozos smart enough to feel stupid
Hope so, now hoe

[Bridge]

[Hook]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud, cause it's mayhem 'til the a.m.
So crank the bass up like crazy and let yourself go, let yourself go
Say fuck it before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody, (go berzerk) get your vials

[Scratches]

[Verse 3]
And they say that love is powerful as cough syrup in Styrofoam
All I know is I fell asleep and woke up in that Monte Carlo
With the ugly Kardashian
Lamar, oh sorry yo, we done both set the bar low
Far as hard, drugs are though that's the past
But I done did enough codeine to knock Future into tomorrow
And girl I ain't got no money to borrow
But I am tryin' to find a way to get you a loan, car note
Oh, Marshall Mathers, shit head with a potty mouth
Get the bar soap lathered, Kangol's and Carheartless Cargos
Girl you’re fixin' to get your heart broke, don’t be absurd man
You birdbrain baby I ain’t called anybody baby since Birdman
Unless you’re a swallow
Word, Rick word man you heard, but don’t be discouraged girl
This is your jam, unless you got toe jam

[Bridge]

[Hook 2x]
